CNN.com - Bellows vs. Bradlee: From other angles - April 18, 2002
the washington post 1150 15th street, nw washington, dc 20071 dear jim:
   you apparently don't think it's terrible to write what you do write
   about the post. but to us, your references to the post, to mrs.
   graham, and to others, including me and quinn, are without exception
   sneering, impugning, belittling and ridiculing. and when it is known
   that you are personally involved in their editing, it is only natural
   that i feel you are something of an authority on what is shoddy and
   disgraceful in journalism. the question is really what do you want to
   do about it? if you want to do nothing, that's fine with us. if you
   want to talk about it, let's talk. sincerely, ben april 4, 1977 since
   its first appearance ten months ago in the washington star, "the ear,"
   the brassy daily oracle, has become the most talked-about gossip
   column in a town that takes chitchat to heart. the ear draws more
   phone calls and mail than any feature in the paper. "you're a dirty
   fun of a snitch," wrote one fan. a local socialite is planning an "ear
   ball" honoring washingtonians mentioned in the column. the star mails
   a gold-colored ear-shaped pin to all whose names have appeared. "new
   york's great white way is not so bright and glittering anymore," says
   the managing editor of the fort lauderdale news. "the center of gossip
   today is washington." -- time magazine, may 10, 1976 no wonder the
   washington post's ben bradlee and the washington star's jim bellows
   don't like each other. they're just alike. they both started out as
   navy men in world war ii and ended up editing rival washington papers.
   they even look alike and have the same deep voice. they're the same
   person. bradlee and bellows' alliterative feud borders on
   self-loathing. washington's b-b war is just that. it is carried on
   with an air-rifle intensity, but the frequent hits smart. which is all
   as it should be. in the old front page days, chicago was the home of
   organized crime and press wars. but richard nixon brought organized
   crime to washington and with it came in-town media competition. the
   bradley-bellows fight fits the town perfectly. who would want
   washington's two leading editors to get along? -- aaron latham in more
   magazine, september 1976