CNN.com - Missile assessment poses a dilemma for Clinton and Gore - August 10, 2000
(time.com) -- "where will by the nation's spy agencies is less likely to
   help president clinton make up his mind than it is to exacerbate his
   dilemma. the finding predicts that u.s. deployment of even the limited
   missile defense system currently under consideration will provoke
   china into substantially increasing its own missile arsenal -- the
   proposed system may be targeted at "rogue" states, but it could
   effectively neutralize china's small nuclear deterrent. and chinese
   expansion would spark a regional domino effect, compelling india to
   counter beijing's expanded capability by increasing its own, which
   would naturally force pakistan to do the same and, if anything,
   increase the danger of "rogue" nuclear activity. moreover, the spy
   agencies warn, without an as yet elusive agreement from moscow,
   deployment of the system could also prompt russia to withdraw from
   various existing arms control treaties and to add to the number of
   warheads atop some of the missiles currently in its fleet. but if
   those arguments speak to the dove in clinton, the report also warns
   that despite north korea's suspension of its missile program and
   efforts at diplomatic rapprochement, it remains capable of deploying a
   missile that could threaten the u.s. a lot sooner than 2015, which is
   when the spy agencies agree the u.s. potentially becomes vulnerable to
   missile threats from states such as iran and iraq. and in a second,
   unclassified report released to congress wednesday, the cia reports
   that russian firms are helping iran develop its missile capability,
   while china continues to provide such assistance to pakistan. in other
   words, there are a growing number of missiles in the hands of people
   not bound by cold war keep-the-peace conventions. coming on top of the
   system's failure to pass two out of three basic tests in the past
   year, the intelligence assessment will likely prompt president clinton
   to fudge -- he won't kill the program, but he may simply leave it on
   life support for his successor to determine its fate. but governor
   bush is a lot more bullish on missile defense, charging that the
   limited system currently on offer is inadequate, and that only a
   comprehensive interceptor system capable of neutralizing threats,
   whether from iraq or from russia, can protect america. that's
   essentially a reprise of president reagan's "star wars" program, and
   it's a far easier sell on the campaign trail than the nuanced
   calculations involved in the limited scheme. and the administration
   clearly recognizes the electoral appeal of the idea of missile defense
   -- after all, president clinton first signed on to the system in 1996,
   as part of the "rebranding" of his presidency under the tutelage of
   dick morris.