CNN.com - Review: Straight-to-video Buzz Lightyear is clever spinoff - August  2, 2000
(buena vista, vhs $24.99, dvd $29.99, not rated) 2000. directed by tad
   stones; starring the voices of tim allen, patrick warburton, linda
   hamilton, wayne knight and stephen furst. as is the fate of most
   disney animated movies, "toy story" is the latest to be reduced to an
   animated tv series. but this time the evolution is more dramatic, as
   the highly sophisticated computer-animated films have given way to an
   ordinary-looking tv cartoon. but if the animation is ordinary in this
   70-minute made-for-video picture that sets up the launch of a new tv
   series (this fall), the concept and the humor is not. even though
   lovable woody and nearly all the rest of the toys are absent from this
   "toy story" spinoff, buzz lightyear (with tim allen reprising the
   voice) remains surrounded by smart-aleck characters whose humor will
   amuse adults as well as kids. "kind of an outdoor voice there,"
   bravely scolds a nerdy assistant when his evil emperor zurg yells at
   him. "wherever he is, i'll bet he's got leg room," snarls a robot
   version of buzz who is cramped inside a tiny spaceship with several
   others. the genesis of this cartoon is more palatable than expected
   and actually kind of clever. it turns out that this is the tv cartoon
   series depicted in "toy story," on which the action figure buzz
   lightyear is based, the one in which the catch-phrase, "to infinity,
   and beyond!" was coined. buzz is pitted against zurg, his nefarious
   enemy who has captured a group of the little green men (who are much
   more talkative here than they were in "toy story") in order to uncover
   the secret that allows them to think as one. his sinister plot
   involves using a device that puts practically everyone under his
   control. it's up to buzz to save the galaxy. helping him (and just as
   often annoying him) are his "star wars"-esque partners: a feisty
   smart-aleck princess leia-type woman, a chewbaca-like tall and furry
   fellow, and an r2-d2-type robot. in a nod to another space-movie
   franchise, william shatner of "star trek" fame talk-sings a silly song
   version of "to infinity, and beyond" during the closing credits. those
   creative folks at pixar, who produced the "toy story" movies as well
   as this video and the upcoming series, have cleverly introduced this
   spinoff with a more "toy story"-like computer-generated introductory
   segment. woody (voiced by tom hanks' sound-alike brother jim) and the
   gang of toys gather around a tv as woody plops in a copy of the same
   vhs videocassette that viewers are watching. in a dig at disney that
   only pixar could get away with, woody tells an excited buzz, "buzz,
   we're not going to watch the whole thing; we just want to see all the
   commercials at the beginning." a dvd version of the movie also
   includes a digital comic book that can be read by the viewer or a
   narrator, and an interactive trivia game. (universal, vhs priced for
   rental, dvd $24.98, rated pg) 2000.
   directed by doug lefler. starring chris masterson, harry van gorkum,
   henry o., john woodnut, rona figueroa and the voice of robby benson.
   the charm of the original "dragonheart" (in 1996) was dennis quaid's
   everyman persona and particularly sean connery as the charismatic
   voice of the dragon. together they overcame a rather weak story and
   dialogue. this 85-minute live-action made-for-video sequel has neither
   of those attributes (robby benson was more convincing as the beast in
   "beauty and the beast" than he is as this dragon) and suffers from
   inferior effects that make the dragon look cheesy. so that leaves "a
   new beginning" with just a weak story and dialogue. but even though
   this certainly will prevent this sequel from gaining the same kind of
   adulation from sci-fi and fantasy fans that the original has enjoyed,
   "a new beginning" should appeal to younger viewers. the cute dragon --
   the son of the dragon in the original and once again the last of his
   breed -- is a youngster himself (he looks more like barney the
   dinosaur than a dragon) and is just learning to fly and breathe fire.
   his first attempt results in flames coming out the wrong end. a young
   stable boy (chris masterson) who yearns to be a heroic knight
   befriends the dragon and they work together to thwart the evil
   intentions of the king's manipulative chief advisor. there are lots of
   sword fights and some scenes that involve opening the chests of
   several of the characters (has to do with getting a piece of the heart
   of the dragon in order to gain its powers), both of which earned the
   film a pg rating; it certainly may not be suitable for very young
   viewers. the dvd version includes several interesting
   behind-the-scenes segments on the making of the movie, animating the
   dragon and a some refreshing comments from benson about how he enjoyed
   doing the voice and generally loves everything he does.