latimes.com: Texas pride is put to the campaign test - July 21, 2000
latimes.com washington (los angeles times) -- when god was handing out
   bluster and bravado, texas must have been first in line because
   everything in texas is bigger and better than anywhere else. just ask
   a texan. they have the biggest sky, tastiest barbecue, best flag,
   friendliest people, lowest taxes, most oil, prettiest sunsets and, for
   good measure, they invented the two-step. in texas, tourists don't
   walk around in t-shirts that say "i love texas." texans do. but a
   different picture of the lone star state has emerged in the fevered
   pitch of the presidential campaign. this texas is an abyss where
   capitalism breeds without social conscience, the air is dirty,
   children go without health insurance and the execution chamber is an
   assembly line of mean-spirited vengeance. the presidential race has
   been almost as much a test of texas forbearance as it has of the
   state's governor and gop presidential nominee-to-be, gov. george w.
   bush. the months-long hyperscrutiny has underscored and sometimes
   magnified the state's every flaw--as al gore, the presumed democratic
   nominee, sought to do during a trip to the state thursday. texas is
   now a benighted standard by which awful things are measured. the state
   that practically invented the frontier spirit, where law and order
   reign and "don't mess with texas" stickers are state-sanctioned
   graffiti, is late-night fodder for jay leno monologues: "bush has a
   new bumper sticker: 'vote for me or i'll have you executed.' "
   "everybody celebrates st. patrick's day in a different way. like in
   new york, it's the big parade. in chicago, they dye the river green.
   and in texas today, they executed a leprechaun." "the entire state now
   stands as proxy for w. bush, under attack for political reasons,"
   crabbed molly ivins, a syndicated fort worth star-telegram columnist.
   "the rest of the country likes to look down on texas as a nest of
   yahoos, racists and rednecks." a democratic party web site advises
   unvaccinated tourists to stay out of texas, given a new federal report
   that shows houston has the lowest immunization rate for children among
   major u.s. cities. and gore, during his stop in san antonio on
   thursday, decried the state's low ranking in several health, education
   and social-service categories. "this is a wonderful state, but i think
   it should be a state where it is just as easy to raise a child as set
   up an oil rig," gore said. texas is neither the backwater its
   detractors claim nor the jewel its natives tout. but it's a bit of
   both. texas is home to the world's largest medical center, in houston,
   yet one-quarter of its residents have no health insurance. it has one
   of the best university systems in the country and one of the worst
   high school dropout rates. it is at the forefront of the technological
   economy, yet medieval scenes of poverty play out along its borders. it
   is "star wars" and charles dickens all wrapped up in a land mass the
   size of france, a state with three of the nation's largest cities and
   some of its most rugged country. it is a place most outsiders cannot
   begin to comprehend, even now, when a lot of outsiders are looking
   hard. and for the most part, 20 million texans couldn't care less. the
   clouds are big and puffy, but there is a gauzy haze over the houston
   skyline. it is 97 degrees outside and a sign on interstate 45 is
   flashing "ozone watch." so c.e. jack jones jr. is watching his
   grandchildren ice skate inside the air-conditioned, air-filtered rink
   in the upscale galleria shopping center. last year, houston passed los
   angeles as the smog capital of america--thanks to an oil industry that
   supports half the nation's refineries and a state government that has
   some of the weakest environmental laws in the land. houston's general
   response has been to politely ask the business establishment to clean
   up the air. it built an air-conditioned amusement park for its
   children. some people think they ought to put a mile-high
   air-conditioned dome over the interstate 610 loop that circles the
   city. "all we need to do is stop people from coming in here trying to
   tell us what to do. we can solve our own cotton pickin' problems,"
   sputters jones, a 74-year-old, 6-foot-tall houston native. "houston is
   the most air-conditioned city in the world. that's how we fight the
   pollution: we keep it out with air filters." you can't see the stars
   in houston on most nights, but that's all right, jones says as his
   grandchildren come off the rink and plop next to him on a bench. "we
   can drive to west texas once a year for that. they're out there." in
   texas, government is loath to regulate; it hopes industry will simply
   do the right thing. as a result, texas ranks fifth in total releases
   of toxic substances into the air, land and water. indeed, there are
   few things texans hate worse than a meddling government. for years,
   that's how texas got rich: exploiting its god-given resources with
   little regard for the environmental consequences, paying low taxes and
   letting the poor fend for themselves. it is a trade-off most willingly
   make. as the late houston mayor jim mcconn used to say: sure the
   streets are full of potholes, but at least you have money in your
   jeans to fix your tire when it goes flat. there is no state income tax
   and, therefore, meager social services. the governor has no power to
   make executive appointments. the state legislature meets 140 days
   every two years, and a lot of texans think it should meet two days
   every 140 years. voter turnout in the 1996 presidential election was
   the nation's third worst, with 41% of eligible citizens casting
   ballots. yet for all the flak directed at texas, some analysts say the
   state's headstrong individualism mirrors the values and problems of
   america at large. "all the attacks on texas are attacks on america in
   the early 21st century. nowhere is anyone committing to education,
   coming to grips with the environmental problem. seventy percent of the
   nation believes in the death penalty," says stephen l. klineberg, a
   professor of sociology at rice university in houston. but texas is
   changing, klineberg says. some predict a state income tax is coming, a
   notion that once was as likely as making the alamo a time-share. the
   houston business community is acknowledging it must clean up the air
   if it is to attract new residents who have the mobility to live and
   work anywhere in a wired world. still, change comes harder to a state
   that was wildly successful under the old, stubborn ways. when oil
   prices soared in the 1970s and the country plunged into a recession,
   the texas economy boomed. the rest of the country was recovering when
   texas finally crashed. now it is finding its place in the global
   economy. the dig-a-hole-and-strike-it-rich days are gone, and texas is
   challenged. "when all you had to do was punch a hole in the ground and
   strike oil, it was easy to have the highest high school dropout rate.
   but you can't drop out and invent a new microchip," said paul begala,
   a former clinton advisor and virginia resident so loyal to his native
   texas that he took a sack of its soil into the delivery room when each
   of his three children was born. "texas is changing, but the constant
   is hatred of government, and that's a mistake in the 21st century."
   the drugstore in johnson city, population 932, was recently put out of
   business by a wal-mart. the wal-mart was 22 miles away, but that
   didn't matter because texans aren't daunted by distance and the time
   it takes to make the drive. this is the fabled hill country, the wide
   open texas of popular imagination. it's only about an hour outside of
   trendy austin, but out here things slow waaaaaay down. johnson city is
   where president lyndon b. johnson's boyhood home is--lady byrd still
   attends garden club functions. it is the proverbial one-stoplight
   town, except two people had to die in traffic accidents before the
   county put that stoplight in. texans do not care much for rules. the
   average income here is about $8 an hour. what people can't buy, they
   barter. robyn henderson, editor and publisher of the johnson city
   record courier, has traded advertising space for eggs. the local
   doctor once swapped an office visit for an oil painting. that sort of
   determination is what helped pull texas out of its recession, but it
   also holds people back. a local fund for indigent health services is
   rarely tapped, henderson said, because folks don't like handouts. some
   do without, such as ladd clark, a 52-year-old self-employed saddle
   maker who built a house on 13 acres for himself and his three dogs.
   they live fine, except that he is a diabetic and one of the millions
   of texans with no health insurance. he doesn't tell that story
   willingly; it dribbles out over a barbecue lunch at ronnie's, where,
   locals say, "every hard-workin' boy ends up at one time or another."
   but what is essentially texan about his situation--clarks thinks he
   probably needs insulin but can't afford it--is that he does not expect
   anybody to help him, least of all the government. "if i can't get it,
   i can't get it," he says. back at the newspaper office, henderson
   observes, "there is a puckered-up feeling people have. they are
   boastful and independent--'if i can't do it, i don't need it and i
   don't want you to give it to me.' " that's the way it's been in texas
   as long as most people can remember, a philosophy that has given the
   state license to provide minimal assistance to those in need. but that
   is not necessarily the way most texans think things should stay.
   "texas is the nearest thing to heaven there is," begala says. "we love
   our state but we are embarrassed by our weak government. we ignore
   400,000 souls in third world conditions with no electricity and no
   running water. we pay our teachers less than our football coaches, and
   we get the results you'd expect." the hope of environmentalists and
   other activists is that this national airing of its imperfections will
   move texas to change. after all, look what happened in massachusetts,
   a state that long has considered itself a model of social
   enlightenment. after boston harbor's pollution problems were
   spotlighted to discredit former massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis
   in his 1988 presidential bid, boston cleaned up the waterway. earlier
   this year, when the presidential primary drew attention to the rebel
   flag flying over south carolina's capitol, the long-defiant state
   brought it down. what puts added pressure on texas is that, unlike
   many other states, it clearly has the resources to do more. even some
   defenders say as much. "it's a low-tax, low-service state--so shoot
   us," columnist ivins wrote. "the only depressing part is that, unlike
   mississippi, we can afford to do better. we just don't. ... maybe this
   spell in the national spotlight will inspire us to fix some things."