CNN.com - Entertainment - Stars of 'X-Men' film are hyped, happy, as comic heroes - July 13, 2000
new york (cnn) -- for hugh jackman, a recent excursion to giant f.a.o.
   schwarz was an otherworldly experience, at best. "there was a whole
   display set up of all the x-men paraphernalia," recalls the australian
   actor, who plays the self-healing mutant wolverine in the highly
   anticipated sci-fi flick, which opens nationwide on friday. "my wife
   couldn't quite resist telling this 5-year-old boy that i was
   wolverine. the little kid looked up at me and he was staring at me.
   his father was kind of batting him away, saying, 'you're wolverine! so
   tell me about it! when's the movie coming out? this is great. i've
   been waiting -- i mean, my son's been waiting for so long!' "so i kind
   of was focusing on the kid and i said, 'so you watch x-men?' he goes,
   'yeah,' i said, 'who's your favorite character?' the child's response?
   cyclops. that tale elicits a pleased laugh from james marsden, the
   relatively unknown young actor playing cyclops, the mutant whose eyes
   can burn holes in anything. one day, he's starring in this year's teen
   dud, "gossip." seemingly overnight, he -- and the rest of his fellow
   x-men -- have their own action figures. shades of "star wars" fan
   mania? marsden, who went to a toys 'r' us and bought a plastic
   likeness of himself in all its eye-blazing splendor, hopes so. "that's
   kind of part of the fun, to go buy your own action figure," he says.
   "the scary thing is that nowadays, they really resemble you." since
   its 1963 debut as a marvel comic, the "x-men" has garnered an almost
   single-mindedly devoted following. according to marvel, the series is
   the most popular comic book franchise of all time. like "superman" and
   "batman," two other characters who leapt off pulp pages to the screen,
   it was only a matter of time until the mutants went to the movies. the
   responsibility for translating "x-men" to the big screen lay with
   bryan singer, who directed critical favorites "the usual suspects"
   (1995) and "apt pupil" (1998). singer tapped patrick stewart to play
   professor xavier, a telepathic mutant who runs a school for gifted
   kids. halle berry portrays storm, a mutant who can manipulate weather;
   anna paquin's rogue character absorbs the power of anyone she touches;
   famke janssen's jean grey is telepathic. stewart, already renowned for
   his "star trek" work, says he was hesitant about playing yet another
   fearless leader. "i had a concern, yeah," he says. "right at the
   beginning, it felt like a lot of baggage. but ... i didn't feel as
   though as i was in a comic-book movie. i was in a modern movie with a
   serious theme. and it was so separate in the tone and quality from
   'next generation' (the second "star trek" tv series) that i didn't
   have any conflict at all." of course, any action flick worth its
   special-effects wizardry has to have a worthy villain. "x-men" has
   magneto (ian mckellen), one of the most powerful mutants around. his
   sidekicks include the eerily creepy sabretooth (wrestler tyler mane)
   and the shape-shifting mystique (rebecca romijn-stamos). a model,
   romijn-stamos says she's ready to show her wicked side. "i was just so
   excited that they wanted me to play a bad guy first of all, but also
   the only female villain in the movie," she says. "and this movie is
   really the first movie with so many female superheroes that are just
   as important as the male superheroes." excitement aside, this "x-men"
   had a troubled journey to the nation's theaters. director singer
   barely completed the film in time for its friday release date,
   prompting fox, the studio distributing the movie, to cancel a june
   press junket to promote "x-men." just weeks before its release date,
   singer was still putting the finishing touches on his big-budget baby.
   singer got involved in the project six years ago, and has since read
   old comics and watched all 70 episodes of the "x-men" animated series.
   singer started casting the film back in the spring of 1999, but the
   lineup wasn't complete until october -- after shooting had already
   started. mane joined first, agreeing to play sabretooth. stewart --
   the first choice to play the wise and benevolent professor -- soon
   followed. when jackman signed on to play wolverine (the first choice,
   dougray scott, had to drop out because he was in the filming of
   "mission: impossible 2) the list was complete. for jackman, one
   actor's loss was very much another one's gain. "when you're playing an
   icon like wolverine, it's sometimes better to be someone that nobody
   knows because they don't know what to expect," jackman says. "i don't
   mind a little bit of anonymity; it helps on the subway." it helped to
   have stamina, too. romijn-stamos' elaborate blue cosmetic coating took
   eight hours daily to apply, and two additional hours to remove. the
   blue skin tone, she says, lingered for months. and jackman says he has
   numerous scars from the enormous -- and sharp -- claws he sported as
   wolverine. now, with the film poised to debut, the buzz over "x-men"
   has spread from one coast to the other. case in point: crowds are
   camping out in front of los angeles theaters to get tickets on opening
   night. this "x-men" ecstasy can only bode super things for marvel,
   which is eyeing film productions next fall for some of its other
   heroes. watch for spiderman, captain america and ghost rider, fighting
   evil and coming to a theater near you.