CNN.com - Bookstores, licensees readying for 'Harry Potter' rollout - July  7, 2000
from bill tucker
   cnnfn correspondent new york (cnn) -- bookstores are scrambling to
   make sure they're well-stocked and ready to capitalize on the latest
   "harry potter" installment when it lands on bookshelves at midnight.
   nearly 4 million copies of "harry potter and the goblet of fire" will
   be released at midnight, a publishing milestone. "this is the biggest
   printing that we know of, children's or adult publishing. it's
   unprecedented," said jennifer brown of publishers weekly. customers
   have been reserving copies of the books for weeks. "we already have
   hundreds of orders in place waiting for the owners to come and
   retrieve them," said frances kelly of barnes & noble. independent
   bookstores are hoping to outdo the chains, some of them opening past
   midnight friday, dressing staff members in costumes and handing out
   potter-related paraphernalia. peter glassman, owner of books of wonder
   in manhattan, says "harry potter" has been positively magical for his
   bottom line. "it's probably about 2 or 3 percent of our total sales,
   which is significant," he said. "no one book usually achieves that, or
   one group." online bookseller amazon.com, which already has received
   hundreds of thousands of orders, is offering the book at a 40 percent
   discount and has promised reduced-rate overnight delivery to the first
   250,000 customers. don't expect to see "harry potter" hysteria calm
   down anytime soon. warner brothers has a "harry potter" movie coming
   around thanksgiving next year, and it has signed 46 licensing deals
   for games, puzzles and action figures, among other things. warner
   brothers is a subsidiary of time warner, which owns cnn interactive.
   all told, warner brothers is expected to rake in more than a billion
   dollars from licensed merchandise. the first products are expected to
   reach warner brothers stores in october, and toy companies already are
   having trouble churning out enough to meet store demand. that's not
   surprising, given analysts' predictions that "harry potter" will be
   one of the most lucrative licenses ever. "if you compared 'harry
   potter' to 'star wars,' you're probably in the same vicinity of
   expected revenue, you know, in the billion-dollar-plus range," said
   sean mcgowan of gerard klauer mattison. "and similar to 'star wars,'
   this is something that has been around for some time now and will be
   around for a long time in the future."