CNN.com - It's missile-test time - July  7, 2000
(time.com) -- it would make president clinton's life a lot easier if the
   damned thing would just miss.... the president has delayed
   green-lighting construction of the controversial national missile
   defense scheme pending the completion of three field tests, the third
   of which takes place friday night somewhere over the pacific. while
   the first test arguably succeeded, the second failed, leaving the
   third test as some kind of tie-breaker on the technical viability of
   the scheme. if the test succeeds, the president faces the tough
   decision of whether to go ahead with the program; if it fails, he
   punts the problem to the next occupant of the oval office. critics
   have pointed out that the tests are primed to succeed, and claim that
   the system has an inherent inability, in battlefield conditions, to
   distinguish an enemy warhead from cheap decoys that would be deployed
   to distract it. advocates counter that they're simply trying to
   establish whether the system can walk before trying to make it run.
   but it's not only the scientific viability of the $60 billion system
   that's hotly contested between advocates and critics. for one thing,
   there is sharp disagreement over the extent of the supposed threat to
   america's cities. advocates, led by hawkish republicans and their
   allies in the military and the arms industry, insist that north korea
   could be in a position to drop warheads on your home town by 2005;
   critics, ranging from state department and intelligence officials to
   russia and european nato members, pooh-pooh this timetable. and even
   if pyongyang, whose missile program has been dormant for the past two
   years, could muster the technical wherewithal to develop such
   long-range missiles, the naysayers argue, there are a growing number
   of political and economic factors militating against north korea's
   pursuing this course. then there are the consequences: building the
   system would violate the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty, and moscow
   has not only shown no interest in renegotiating the pact to allow
   washington to go ahead, it has also warned that if the u.s. withdraws
   from the treaty all other arms-control agreements are null and void.
   the reason for moscow's hostility is that they see the system as a
   precursor of a larger umbrella that could eventually neutralize the
   deterrent value of russia's own nuclear arsenal. and its fears are
   well grounded -- while president clinton is considering a limited
   system involving some 20 interceptors to guard against one or two
   missiles fired by "rogue states," candidate george w. bush has
   committed himself to a comprehensive, "star wars"-like anti-missile
   shield that would eliminate all threats. and, needless to say, the
   chinese, whose long-range nuclear fleet comprises only about 20
   single-warhead missiles, is taking the matter personally, because its
   own nuclear deterrent might be eliminated by even president clinton's
   limited defense. beijing has warned that if washington goes ahead it
   will be forced to expand its own missile fleet, which might prompt
   india to do the same in response, triggering a similar response from
   pakistan. despite the depth of opposition, though, the pressure on
   president clinton to give the go-ahead may prove compelling. missile
   defense remains overwhelmingly popular on capitol hill, and the
   republicans would pounce on any caution by the administration to
   proclaim candidate gore as soft on security. so whether the third test
   succeeds or fails, look for the president to create a very
   clintonesque fudge that allows the system to proceed far enough to
   cover gore, but not far enough to cross the line drawn by the russians
   and chinese.