CNN.com - Memo to Tinseltown: If your films stink, no one will bother to see them - June 30, 2000
(time.com) -- this is ridiculous. it's summer in new york city. heat is
   emanating from every imaginable surface. i live in a very small
   apartment on the fifth floor of a walk-up building. i have an
   extremely feeble air conditioner that seems to be rendered impotent by
   temperatures above 80 degrees. the signs are perfectly clear: i should
   be spending every free moment nestled into the mottled, slightly
   sticky seats at my local movie theater, enjoying the air conditioning,
   nibbling on faux-butter-laced popcorn, slurping a giant-size soda, and
   desperately trying to pick jujubes out of my teeth. but here we are,
   careening into july, and i've seen only two movies since memorial day.
   and those weren't even "real" movies; they were low-budget art-house
   "films" made with grainy resolution and subpar sound. it's not that i
   didn't enjoy "the croupier" and "hamlet," (ok, i didn't really enjoy
   "the croupier" so much), it's just that i've been so well conditioned
   by the hollywood machine to expect blockbusters from may through
   september. (think "independence day," "deep impact," "star wars".) and
   now i find myself fighting off low-grade depression. the wall street
   journal and new york times both ran major stories thursday profiling
   the desperate state of affairs in hollywood. movie moguls, their
   fourth homes mortgaged to the hilt, are panicking: why, they cry, why
   aren't people going to the movies?! fox head honcho rupert murdoch has
   apparently reached the end of his admittedly very short rope, firing
   the top guy at fox studios (which you may remember as the home of a
   little film called "titanic"). in an attempt to answer the moguls'
   pathetic pleas for answers (and perhaps in a bid to keep murdoch from
   buying them up lock, stock and barrel), both newspapers worked in
   down-and-dirty financial analyses of the movie crisis, trying, without
   success, to work out the arithmetical correlation between moviegoers'
   appetites and the position of the moon and certain planets. i can save
   them a whole lot of time and energy, and maybe even put a few overpaid
   market researchers out of business. while i can't speak for the
   country at large, i do know why i'm not going to the movies. why? most
   of the movies that are out right now just plain stink. not true, you
   say? ok, then, just for the sake of argument, let's take a look at a
   few of these "hits" we're all supposed to be running out to see: one
   of the less brutal reviews of the farrelly brothers' most recent
   adventure pointed out that viewers are less likely to be insulted by
   the movie's vulgarity than by its insipid and totally boring plot.
   need i say more? i think samuel l. jackson is a great actor. he looks
   fabulous. he looks even more fabulous in armani. but i don't need to
   pay $10 to see him, thus clad, reciting singsong lyrics in a pallid
   imitation of the groundbreaking movie of the same name. please, mel.
   we've seen this all before, and it wasn't so entertaining in
   "braveheart" that we needed to see it again. here's a riddle: what are
   all these talented people (robert duvall, angelina jolie, giovanni
   ribisi) doing in a movie like this? does jerry bruckheimer have some
   kind of career-destroying dirt on nicolas cage? armed with the grim
   numbers, warner brothers executives probably spent thursday night
   huddled around small george clooney and mark wahlberg voodoo dolls,
   praying to the movie gods and tossing salt over both shoulders in
   preparation for friday's opening of the much-hyped "perfect storm." i
   will be waiting on line to see this movie, i assure you. but if, for
   some reason, even clooney's indisputable charms fail to rouse the
   attentions of the american moviegoing public, here's a suggestion for
   next summer: think "reality" features. keep a small video camera
   running in the conference rooms at fox, warner brothers, paramount and
   miramax as the summer wears on. if profits improve, that's great. if
   not, you've got a whole series of "reality" movies to show next year,
   complete with images of frantic executives hurling themselves out the
   first-floor windows of movie-lot bungalows. hey, if it works for cbs,
   why not take it to the local cineplex?