CNN.com - Bill Clinton: Brave defender of... the Aleutians - June 23, 2000
(time.com) -- ok, let's get this straight: the reason the u.s. is
   risking three decades of arms-control accords with moscow -- and
   driving everyone from beijing to berlin to the russian side of the
   argument -- is to protect a couple of thousand "northern exposure"
   types on alaska's aleutian islands from a missile attack by north
   korea? it would certainly appear that way, according a report in
   friday's new york times. the reason the proposed national missile
   defense system was moved from its original planned site at grand
   forks, n.d. -- where the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty allows the
   u.s. to deploy a limited missile interceptor system -- to a
   treaty-busting location on the alaskan island of shemya is because
   that part of the aleutians couldn't fit under the umbrella from grand
   forks. but president clinton, it appears, was happier to go toe-to-toe
   with the russians, chinese and europeans than face the wrath of
   alaska's powerful republican senator ted stevens over leaving a
   handful of his constituents at the mercy of missiles that might
   someday be fired by "states of concern" (the states formerly known as
   "rogue"). don't even think of asking why, as irrational as they may
   be, the dastardly north koreans would attack the aleutians when there
   are thousands more americans on okinawa and south korea. the race to
   shut the aleutian missile window, though, is an illustration of the
   centrality of domestic politics in the missile-defense debate.
   throughout the process, everything from intelligence assessments of
   the missile capabilities of the north koreans to the questions and
   answers of tests to ascertain whether the proposed system can actually
   work have been revised to suit competing political agendas over
   whether the system should be deployed. indeed, many observers believe
   the president's enthusiasm for the "son of star wars" program that
   emerged in 1996 -- after his administration had only three years
   earlier pronounced ronald reagan's original dead -- was a product of
   clinton's move to the center, under the tutelage of dick morris, in
   which he appropriated a number of republican positions in order to
   neutralize their power to unseat him. president clinton had originally
   planned to decide on green-lighting the system after three tests, but
   with the third of those looming on july 7 and only one having arguably
   succeeded thus far -- and with evidence mounting that its ability to
   detect and destroy enemy warheads remains somewhat hypothetical -- the
   president may be increasingly inclined to simply hand off the decision
   to his successor. whether he includes "defender of the aleutians" in
   his legacy title remains to be seen, but national missile defense may
   have already served a key purpose in shielding the clinton
   administration from soft-on-security attacks by the gop.