CNN.com - Space - 'Robonaut' prepares for spacewalking duties - June 13, 2000
(cnn) -- the next generation of spacewalkers could fix faulty satellites
   and space stations without breaking a sweat, needing a meal or
   expecting a paycheck. already the first one, a metal humanoid known as
   robonaut, has developed an impressive level of dexterity. resembling a
   centurion, the prototype is a big leap ahead in attempts to develop
   robots for use in space, according to nasa. within a few years,
   similar robonauts could work outside the confines of a spacecraft,
   performing routine maintenance alongside astronauts. "we've made some
   pretty significant steps forward. previous ones were larger and not as
   dexterous as current ones," said chris culbert, chief of robotics
   systems at nasa's johnson space center in houston. predecessors
   suffered from problems with bulk. but robonaut has slimmed down to the
   size of an astronaut in a spacesuit, the ideal size for working with
   equipment designed over the decades for human-sized users. robonaut
   possesses flexible and sophisticated arms and hands, complete with
   five fingers, a sturdy torso and a head equipped with two color
   cameras for stereoscopic eyes. a skin made of woven material similar
   to spacesuit fabric protects vulnerable areas against radiation and
   the extreme temperature variations of space. in some ways, robonaut
   exhibits more flexibility than humans. its wrists can rotate more, for
   example. it can grip power tools and tether ropes, but its strength
   does not yet match that of its biological cousins. "if you'd thumb
   wrestle robonaut now, you'd win. in a couple years from now, that
   probably won't be true," culbert said. the design of robonaut's crude
   nervous system, a web of sensors, software and circuits, was borrowed
   from human anatomy. engineers concentrated most of the controls and
   command structures in a mechanical backbone. "there's no brain in the
   head because it's limited in size. it pretty much all goes in the
   torso. we don't have to worry about a digestive system." such robots
   would complement astronauts, not replace them. during spacewalks now,
   astronauts devote as much as one-third of their time to tasks like
   installing foot restraints and laying out tools, routine jobs that a
   robot could perform, culbert said. robonaut lacks the critical and
   creative intelligence necessary to handle complex tasks and
   unpredictable obstacles that often crop up in orbit. "they can't think
   on the fly like humans," culbert said. but robonaut he has plenty of
   mechanical moves, controlled by a human with virtual reality eyes and
   hands. in a demonstration, cameras in robonaut's head beam visual
   information to eyeglasses worn by a nasa technician, who directs the
   robot's arms and fingers by moving gloves wired with sensors. the
   system "gives a human the impression he's in the robot," culbert said.
   sporting an epoxy helmet inspired by centurion armor, robonaut
   resembles boba fett, an interstellar bounty hunter in the star wars
   movie series. nasa said the likeness is purely coincidental. "we
   didn't intend for it to look like boba fett," culbert said. "we took
   it from a generic head model. we haven't contacted ('star wars'
   director) george lucas to see how he feels about it yet."