CNN.com - Movies find 2001 a year of records - January  1, 2002
(cnn) -- it was a year when it all came together for the movie industry.
   weary of recession, and later in the year fearful of terrorism,
   americans stayed close to home, looking to the multiplex for cheap
   entertainment. hollywood was ready, with a succession of blockbusters,
   slick marketing, and something for everyone. mgm's "hannibal" and
   dimension films' "spy kids" were the year's strong starters, each
   grossing more than $100 million. but the summer brought a string of
   hits that doubled that: "shrek," "the mummy returns" and "rush hour
   2." "there seems to be a new benchmark in terms of what we call a
   blockbuster," said paul dergarabedian, president of exhibitor
   relations co. "this year, by the end of the year, we'll wind up with
   about 17 films over $100 million. but the key to this year's success
   is that we have five films that have gone beyond $200 million. that's
   never happened before." the top three movies of year were made for
   kids -- the boy-wizard fantasy "harry potter and the sorcerer's
   stone," grossing $286 million through sunday, followed by two animated
   hits: storybook spoof "shrek" at $267 million and nightmare farce
   "monsters, inc." at $236 million. rounding out this year's top five
   performers were sequels to two previous hits -- "rush hour 2," the
   odd-couple action comedy starring jackie chan and chris tucker with
   $226 million, and adventure thriller "the mummy returns" with $202
   million. "pearl harbor" fell just shy of the $200 million mark with
   $198.5 million in u.s. and canadian ticket sales. "lord of the rings"
   could become the sixth film released in 2001 to hit the $200 million
   level. more people went to the movies this year, but they also paid
   more. attendance was up 5.5 percent from last year, and ticket prices
   rose just under 4 percent, the combination pushing gross receipts to a
   record $8 billion by christmas day. it was a bonanza for studios, but
   not necessarily for the companies that own them. "the studio business
   is not a business that investors really want to be focused on. they
   want to make sure when they look at a diversified media company that
   they run the business like a business," said stuart linde of lehman
   brothers. a sink-or-swim blockbuster mentality doesn't give investors
   much confidence, either -- and hollywood had plenty of lead weights
   this year. among 2001's disasters were "scary movie 2," which grossed
   less than half the $157 million the first film took in; "atlantis: the
   lost empire," which earned less than its $90 million budget;
   "swordfish," which took in $70 million but was budgeted at $80
   million; and "final fantasy: the spirits within," which bombed with
   just $32 million on a budget of more than $125 million. but the
   studios faced bigger problems after the terrorist attacks september
   11. nobody knew whether audiences would reject action films or violent
   fare, which have become mainstays of the marketplace. an arnold
   schwarzenegger film, "collateral damage," had its opening postponed in
   the wake of the attacks, and other film premieres were also pushed
   back. but the early returns seem to indicate moviegoers still have a
   taste for such movies. "training day" and "don't say a word," both
   released after september 11, have performed well. family fare, such as
   "monsters, inc.," "harry potter and the sorcerer's stone," and "jimmy
   neutron," has done very well. still, even though many films made
   money, few had what the industry calls "legs" -- long, profitable runs
   in theaters. many films were "front-loaded," opened in thousands of
   theaters so as to dominate their first weekend, then fell off 50
   percent or more in receipts thereafter. and a big star didn't
   guarantee a big opening, notes variety editor-in-chief peter bart.
   "toward the end of the year, those pictures that were disappointments
   were jim carrey's picture, tom cruise's picture. the big hits were the
   franchise pictures, like 'harry potter' and earlier in the year,
   'shrek,'" he said. "so one wonders if we're beginning to reach that
   time where the star is the story, and not the personality." story will
   be at the heart of two 2002 sequels, the second chapters to both
   "harry potter" and "lord of the rings." (the first "potter" broke
   box-office records, grossing $90.3 million in its first three days,
   and is expected to cross $300 million by the end of the week.) also up
   for next year: new installments of "austin powers," "stuart little,"
   "star trek," "men in black," and the biggest of them all, "star wars"
   -- all of which could make 2002 another huge year for hollywood. the
   upbeat year-end tallies also come despite an unusually murky pre-oscar
   season, with virtually no consensus on which films are most likely to
   garner the five academy award nominations for the year's best picture.
   among the year's biggest commercial successes, only one, "lord of the
   rings: the fellowship of the ring," is seen as having a shot at
   hollywood's highest honor. "shrek" has generated a bit of oscar buzz.
   this year for the first time the academy is giving an award for best
   animated film. the recent golden globe nominations gave boosts to the
   musical "moulin rouge" and drama "a beautiful mind" but produced no
   clear front-runners among a diverse field of movies that have divided
   critics and received little commercial attention as yet. films like
   turbulent family drama "in the bedroom," combat film "black hawk
   down," david lynch's dream-like "mulholland drive," the reverse
   thriller "memento" and robert altman's "gosford park" have also all
   gained accolades from various critics groups. but many of them have
   strong detractors as well. oscar nominations will be announced
   february 12.