CNN.com - Entertainment - Samuel L. Jackson gets gold mine role in 'Shaft -  June 15, 2000
june 15, 2000
   web posted at: 2:41 p.m. edt (1841 gmt) (cnn) -- samuel l. jackson was
   in college when he saw "shaft." the 1971 film starred richard
   roundtree as the title character, a black private detective who's as
   smooth with the ladies as he is at solving crimes. jackson's thoughts
   at that time? "i wish i was that tough," he recalls thinking. "i wish
   i was that sexy." jackson was not alone. the character john shaft,
   whose in-your-face attitude made roundtree a star, became a movie hero
   who spoke to a generation of black moviegoers. the film, directed by
   gordon parks on a $1 million budget, went on to rake in $12 million
   and spin off two sequels. it also spawned the grammy- and
   oscar-winning hit song by isaac hayes. the success helped launch a
   bevy of so-called blaxploitation flicks like "superfly" and "the
   mack." with "shaft" and company on the big screen, black audiences
   finally had a super-cool dude to fight for them -- "the cat that won't
   cop out," as the title song noted. "i was excited by it, because all
   of a sudden there's somebody i can relate to," jackson says. "that's
   the hero. he looked like me, he sounded like me. his clothes were
   better. (he) had more girls. but still, it was like, 'wow, he's the
   hero.'" and now, jackson, at 51 no longer a college kid, is the hero.
   he's starring in the latest "shaft," which opens nationwide on friday.
   in the john singleton-directed effort from paramount pictures,
   jackson's title character works for the new york police department.
   the nephew of the original shaft (roundtree makes a cameo), he soon
   quits the force to solve crime in his own shaft-ly way. this new shaft
   is "a little bit more violent and a bit more volatile" than the
   original, says jackson. the new film also is aiming for a different
   audience than the original. jackson says cultural changes have
   occurred since the 1970s, including "the absorption of hip-hop culture
   by suburbia" -- white kids, in other words, who would be eager to see
   the new "shaft." "shaft" has been one of the summer's most anticipated
   releases for at least three reasons: ††ï† hollywood audiences seem to
   respond to established brand names (see "mission: impossible" and its
   sequel, currently in theaters). ††ï† it stars jackson, who saw his
   hollywood stock rise by portraying the bible-quoting hitman jules
   winnfield in 1994's "pulp fiction." he's since starred in movies like
   "jackie brown" (1997), "star wars: episode i - the phantom menace"
   (1999), and "rules of engagement" (2000). ††ï† it's directed by
   singleton, the youngest director nominated for an academy award, who
   was 22 when he received the oscar nod for 1991's "boyz n the hood."
   despite all the positive buzz, there was talk that things weren't
   going so well on the set. creative differences -- alleged spats among
   jackson, singleton, screenwriter richard price, producer scott rudin
   and the studio -- reportedly plagued production. apparently, the
   studio was pressuring singleton to make changes in the script,
   requesting fewer sex scenes and more scenes illustrating shaft's soft
   side. jackson's response was classic shaft. "i wanted to be faithful
   to what i think the 'shaft' movie is, so i'm not going to get bullied
   or allow whoever else is being bullied into doing something that i
   don't want to do just to defuse (an argument)," jackson was quoted in
   sunday's daily news of los angeles. in the end, jackson says, he
   interprets the character as a tough guy -- someone who can get away
   with lines like, "it's my duty to please that booty." the studio,
   however, succeeded in removing most of the sex scenes from the final
   cut, a fact that irks jackson. "we're living in an even more
   puritanical society than we were 30 years ago," jackson told the daily
   news. "so it's ok for shaft to bash somebody's head in, but to show
   him (having sex), well, that would offend women, i guess." singleton
   has said little about any conflicts with the studio or jackson. "what
   i wanted to do (with 'shaft') was make something that was just a good
   saturday night movie," he said. ultimately, jackson and singleton
   agreed on at least one issue: shaft is a pop-culture icon that meant a
   great deal to black americans in the 1970s. "as a young child, that
   was like the whole epitome of manhood for me," says singleton, 32. for
   roundtree, the introduction of a new shaft means something more. "it
   was fun and great (to appear in the movie) because i knew i was
   handing off the baton to someone else," he says. "so, it's kind of
   letting go for me, after so many years."