CNN.com - Gore announces child-care initiatives; Bush honors World War II veterans - June  6, 2000
new york (cnn) -- campaigning in new york, vice president al gore on
   tuesday announced $8 billion in new campaign proposals aimed at
   improving standards and raising pay for workers at day-care centers
   across the united states. "no government program can ever replace the
   love, warmth, and support of a family. but as a society, we can make
   it a whole lot easier for families to be strong," said gore, who has
   softened the tone of his presidential campaign in recent days. "we can
   give practical support and more options to americans caring for small
   children." during an appearance at a manhattan day care center, the
   presumptive democratic nominee unveiled a plan that would require
   participating states to establish early reading programs and would
   give bonuses to staff that complete a program on literacy training for
   children. the plan would also require states to increase background
   checks of workers and limit staff turnover through pay incentives for
   better-trained workers. "we do not presently place a high enough value
   on child care. you know there are 21 states in our country that do not
   even require criminal background checks for the people who are
   employed in child care centers to make sure there are no abuses, to
   make sure that there are no people who should really never be working
   in child care facilities." gore said that inspections and the number
   of accredited centers would be increased under his incentive plan,
   which would cost about $8 billion over the next ten years. the
   proposals reflect the vice president's recent strategy of putting
   forth optimistic campaign themes while avoiding attacks on his
   republican rival, texas gov. george w. bush. the vice president
   announced plans monday to improve online government services, which
   followed on the heels of campaign proposals to increase cancer
   research and incentives to help parents meet child support payments.
   on tuesday, the gore campaign released figures estimating that 13
   million children under age 6 are receiving child care in the united
   states, but only 14 percent of centers have been rated as high
   quality. "we require hundreds of hours (of training) for people who
   take care of hair but no training for people who take care of
   children, and that ought to change," the vice president said. gore
   explained that his plan was based in part on the child care program
   run by the department of defense, which cares for 200,000 children
   daily at 300 locations. gore's plan also calls for a 10-year, $30
   billion tax incentive plan to help parents with child-care costs. gore
   pledged to expand the federal child care tax credit to cover up to
   $2,400 in day care costs per child, and said he would make the credit
   available to those families whose incomes are so low that they pay no
   tax. gore also called for a tax break of up to $500 for parents who
   stay home to take care of children younger than 1 year old. the $30
   billion proposal is part of the clinton administration's existing
   budget proposal for an overall $250 billion tax cut over the next
   decade. gore also touched upon his international policy agenda on
   monday, during a television appearance on abc's "good morning
   america." the presumptive democratic nominee said he would consider
   pulling out of the anti-ballistic missile (abm) treaty with russia if
   it hindered u.s. plans to go forward with a missile defense system.
   the vice president was commenting on russian president vladimir
   putin's refusal to modify the 1972 landmark treaty during a summit
   meeting with president bill clinton this past weekend in moscow.
   clinton, as well as gore, is in favor of moving the united states
   toward a limited anti-missile system. "i'm not going to rule out
   whatever step might be necessary to assure the american people are
   safe and secure," said gore, when asked if would consider scrapping
   the treaty. bush backs a more extensive missile defense plan that many
   critics have likened to president ronald reagan's "star wars" of the
   1980s. gore charged tuesday that the large scale of the bush plan
   could re-ignite an arms race with russia "there's a big difference
   between tearing up the abm treaty and throwing it away, which the
   so-called space-age 'star wars' system would require, and the
   different alternative, which is a modest, affordable and limited
   system that is designed to protect us from these rogue states that
   might have a handful of weapons," gore said. bush marked tuesday's
   56th anniversary of the d-day landing by attending a world war ii
   memorial ceremony in augusta, georgia. "d-day is as momentous as any
   day in our grand history. as a nation, we must honor and do honor to
   the heroism and sacrifice of war by marking days of remembrance and
   raising monuments as the good people of georgia have done at hero's
   overlook," said bush, after touring the memorial grounds along the
   savannah river. the texas governor used the appearance to promote his
   agenda before the "greatest generation" -- americans who grew up
   during the great depression and came of age and fought in world war
   ii. he pledged to make "reform proposals" aimed at making the
   department of veterans' affairs more responsive to the needs of u.s.
   veterans. citing a 500,000-case backlog of claims, bush said that the
   current system has evolved into "a complicated, bureaucratic process"
   with "unfair denials of coverage." "a grateful nation keeps faith with
   the old soldier," bush said. "it stays true to its obligations to the
   veteran ... too often, in washington, those who served in the military
   are remembered only on veterans' day." on another subject, bush
   defended his social security plans to let workers take a portion of
   their payroll tax and invest it in the stock market. gore has called
   the proposal "risky." "nothing will change for those currently
   receiving social security, or for those nearing retirement. the
   promise made is a promise that will be kept," bush told the group of
   older veterans. he also lent his support to the idea of building a
   national world war ii memorial on the national mall in washington,
   d.c. "even as the world war ii generation passes from our midst, there
   is still no national memorial to honor their achievement," said bush,
   who commended efforts lead by former sen. bob dole to build a memorial
   "right where it belongs, in the heart of washington, d.c." although
   the plan to construct a 7.5 acre, $100 million memorial on the mall is
   in the final stages of the approval process, it has encountered
   increasing opposition from groups who say the design is awkwardly
   large and would destroy too much green space. bush also cited his
   recent proposals to build a national missile defense system that is
   more comprehensive than the plans offered by the clinton
   administration. "the cold war has ended, the evil empire has passed,"
   said bush, referring to the former soviet union. "but evil still
   remains ... we must stand ready to meet the new threats of the 21st
   century: terrorism, threats from rogue dictatorships and the spread of
   weapons of mass destruction." the presumptive republican nominee also
   accused the clinton-gore administration of contributing to lower
   morale in the armed services through weapons cutbacks and an
   over-deployment of u.s. troops overseas. "after seven years, the
   clinton-gore administration has allowed the morale to slip to
   dangerously low levels. i will rebuild the military power of the
   united states in order to keep the peace," bush said. bush's jabs at
   gore on tuesday were seen be many as a pre-emptive response to the
   expected barrage of so-called issues ads by the democratic national
   committee expected to air this weekend. the television ads, financed
   largely by "soft money" contributions to the dnc, will highlight
   democratic positions on popular items on the democratic agenda,
   including social security, prescription drug coverage for senior
   citizens, and a patients' bill of rights. the dnc said the planned
   media blitz is intended to counter of series of ads independent groups
   sympathetic to the republicans have already aired. in march, gore
   pledged to prevent the dnc from running any soft money ads this year,
   if bush did the same. "it sounds like to me they are laying out a
   smoke screen to provide an excuse for al gore to break his promise,"
   said bush, who denied democratic charges that the gop is already
   running issue ads. while campaigning in augusta, bush also told
   reporters that a ruling by the u.s. supreme court throwing out a texas
   inmate's death sentence is proof that "the system is working." on
   monday, the supreme court reversed the death sentence of victor hugo
   saldano after prosecutors conceded the penalty was based in part on
   the fact that he is hispanic. saldano, convicted of robbing and
   murdering a man in dallas in 1996, will have a new sentencing hearing.
   "as i understand the facts, there is no question that the man did the
   crime. it's the penalty phase that needs to be examined. i think the
   system is working," bush said. bush -- an ardent supporter of the
   death penalty -- granted a 30-day reprieve last week to texas death
   row inmate ricky nolen mcginn, allowing defense attorneys enough time
   to seek dna testing of crime scene evidence.