CNN.com - World - U.S. and Russia expected to announce 'unprecedented' plutonium deal- June 4, 2000
moscow -- russia and the united states are expected to announce sunday
   the details of a deal that would seal the destruction of tons of
   weapons-grade plutonium. the agreement is expected to involve enough
   material to make several thousand small nuclear warheads. officials
   close to the negotiations, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
   such a deal was "unprecedented." u.s. president bill clinton and
   russian president vladimir putin were to resume talks in moscow on
   sunday following a two-hour, 45-minute working dinner at the kremlin
   on saturday night that u.s. officials described as "businesslike."
   clinton and his russian counterpart are expected to tackle some tough
   issues as the talks develop, including strategic nuclear arsenals,
   russian objections to the planned u.s. national missile-defense
   program, economic reform in russia -- and the russian military
   campaign in chechnya. the most sensitive topic is the planned american
   missile defense system -- a scaled-down version of ronald reagan's
   "star wars" proposal from the early 1980s. clinton's plan is intended
   to defend against missile attacks from such nations as north korea and
   iraq. a senior u.s. official who briefed reporters on saturday's
   meeting said the u.s. missile defense plan was discussed, but he
   withheld details. the proposed system would begin with 100
   anti-missile missiles positioned in alaska, intended to knock out
   attackers in space. such a system is barred by the 1972 anti-ballistic
   missile treaty. that agreement was an attempt to assure both sides
   that neither would lose its power to retaliate if hit. clinton, who
   will not decide until autumn whether to try to construct the
   missile-defense system, went into the meeting with putin following
   hints that the new russian president may have relaxed his opposition
   to it. the senior u.s. official, who declined to be further
   identified, refused to detail either side's position during the dinner
   meeting, but said: "this is a very serious and focused beginning of a
   set of conversations that are going to continue through the weekend."
   in advance of the summit, putin said in an nbc-tv interview that the
   abm treaty must be preserved, calling that a condition for further
   nuclear arms reductions. but in the same interview, putin said he saw
   the potential missile threat from states such as north korea. putin
   suggested that a different system within the abm treaty could
   intercept missiles near liftoff and protect europe and russia as well
   as the united states. "what is important is that president putin is
   signaling that he is open to discussions," u.s. secretary of state
   madeleine albright said in berlin on saturday, reflecting on putin's
   ambiguous comments. she told german journalists it was interesting
   that putin seemed to see some risk from north korea and that he
   suggested "we should look at it together." clinton leaves moscow on
   monday after addressing parliament, the first u.s. president to do so.
   he may visit a new russian orthodox cathedral on sunday morning, and
   is scheduled to make a stopover in kiev before returning to
   washington.