CNN.com - World - Clinton, Putin dine at Kremlin, talk about missiles - June 2, 2000
moscow -- president clinton and vladimir putin began their summit with a
   two-hour, 45-minute working dinner at the kremlin saturday night that
   u.s. officials described as businesslike. u.s. officials said putin
   spoke a little english during his dinner with clinton, and gave his
   guest a tour of his kremlin study, a small chapel and a gym and
   massage room. after a dinner that included cabbage soup, spicy wild
   boar and goose with red berry sauce, the two leaders relaxed and
   listened to jazz. band leader oleg lundstrem brought along a saxophone
   -- the instrument clinton plays -- just in case the u.s. president
   felt like joining in. it was not immediately clear whether he did.
   during their meeting, clinton and his russian counterpart discussed
   strategic nuclear arsenals, russian objections to the planned u.s.
   national missile-defense program, economic reform and the russian
   military campaign in chechnya. the most sensitive topic was the
   planned american missile defense system -- a scaled-down version of
   ronald reagan's "star wars" proposal in the early 1980s. clinton's
   plan is intended to defend against missile attacks from such nations
   as north korea and iraq. a senior u.s. official who briefed reporters
   on the meeting said the u.s. missile defense plan was discussed, but
   he withheld details. the proposed system would begin with 100
   anti-missile missiles positioned in alaska, intended to knock out
   attackers in space. such a system is barred by the 1972 anti-ballistic
   missile treaty, drafted in the era of east-west mutual deterrence to
   assure both sides that neither would lose its power to retaliate if
   hit. clinton, who will not decide until autumn whether to try to
   construct one, went into his meeting with putin intrigued by the
   suggestion that the new russian president may have relaxed his
   opposition to it. the senior u.s. official, who declined to be further
   identified, refused to detail either side's position during the dinner
   meeting, but said: "this is a very serious and focused beginning of a
   set of conversations that are going to continue through the weekend."
   in advance of the summit, putin said in an nbc-tv interview that the
   abm treaty must be preserved, calling that a condition for further
   nuclear arms reductions. but in the same interview, putin said he saw
   the potential missile threat from states such as north korea. putin
   suggested that a different system within the abm treaty could
   intercept missiles near liftoff and protect europe and russia as well
   as the united states. the u.s. officials were briefly tantalized by
   putin's remarks but said that subsequent conversations with russian
   officials were discouraging. the officials said the system proposed by
   putin was unrealistic. a land-based "theater defense" would likely
   have to be based in russia, and u.s. officials said that would raise
   too many command and control issues to make it a feasible system for
   the united states to count on. but a white house official told cnn the
   talk of cooperating with the united states at least signaled a
   willingness to negotiate. and putin's acknowledgment of a "threat" in
   the discussions about a theater-based system represented a movement
   from russia's previous statements that it did not believe north korea,
   iran, iraq or other nations represented a threat now or in the near
   future. "what is important is that president putin is signaling that
   he is open to discussions," u.s. secretary of state madeleine albright
   said in berlin on saturday, reflecting on putin's ambiguous comments.
   she told german journalists it was interesting that putin seemed to
   see some risk from north korea and that he suggested "we should look
   at it together." roughly six hours of u.s.-russia talks are set for
   sunday, including more one-on-one discussions between the two
   presidents. one likely agreement would have the u.s. commit itself to
   the purchase of 34 tons of russian plutonium -- enough to build
   thousands of small nuclear warheads. this is the next installment in a
   u.s. program aimed at keeping russian nuclear technology and materials
   out of the hands of unfriendly nations. clinton, nearing the end of a
   weeklong european tour that included stops in portugal and germany,
   flew to moscow from a conference in berlin with leaders of more than a
   dozen nations. it was clinton's fifth and probably last presidential
   visit to moscow but his first meeting with putin since the former kgb
   spy took office last month after winning a march election. clinton
   leaves moscow on monday after addressing parliament, the first u.s.
   president to do so. he may visit a new russian orthodox cathedral on
   sunday morning, and is scheduled to make a stopover in kiev before
   returning to washington.