CNN.com - Sometimes, it helps to add a 'rogue state' - June  7, 2000
june 8, 2000
   web posted at: 5:35 am hkt (2135 gmt)
   reports that pakistan's nuclear capability far exceeds india's are
   likely to be taken with a pinch of salt among observers of south
   asia's arms race -- and among missile-defense skeptics. according to a
   number of unnamed military and intelligence sources cited by nbc, the
   u.s. now believes that far from being the region's nuclear underdog,
   pakistan may have up to five times as many warheads as india and is
   way ahead of its rival in developing missile systems to carry them.
   whereas it had originally been believed that pakistan had between 10
   and 15 nuclear devices while india had between 25 and 100, the nbc
   report suggests india's capability had been overstated and that
   pakistan was more likely to have between 25 and 100 devices. "given
   the history of pakistan's nuclear program, these figures will
   certainly raise a few eyebrows," says time u.n. correspondent william
   dowell. "pakistan struggled unsuccessfully for decades to develop
   nuclear weapons, and half of their devices failed to go off in their
   1998 tests, which created the impression they were still battling to
   perfect the technology. pakistan's nuclear program is generally
   assumed to be heavily dependent on chinese assistance, and it sounds a
   little far-fetched that beijing would allow them to develop a nuclear
   program on that scale." military and intelligence leaks to the media,
   of course, are not always inadvertent. "at a time when we're trying to
   promote a 'star wars' missile defense against rogue states, it always
   helps to have a few more potential threats out there," says dowell.
   "somebody may have a reason for encouraging looseness with this
   information." to be sure, advancing the notion that a state as
   unstable -- and as prone to islamic fundamentalist pressure -- as
   pakistan is developing an arsenal of nuclear warheads and a fleet of
   converted intermediate-range chinese and north korean missiles on
   which to carry them underscores the dangers cited by missile-defense
   advocates. it makes little difference, however, to the balance of
   nuclear terror on the ground in south asia. pakistan is a lot smaller
   than india, both geographically and in population, and would need a
   larger nuclear capability to annihilate india than vice versa. such
   economies of scale, though, may be irrelevant to the language of
   nuclear deterrence. says time pentagon correspondent mark thompson,
   "once you have one or two that you're capable of using, it makes no
   difference whether you have five or 500."