CNN.com - Nuke talks could ruin Clinton's valedictory tour - May 31, 2000
(time.com) -- this is the season of legacy for bill clinton, and that
   means photo opportunities. the president arrived in portugal tuesday
   to kick off a seemingly haphazard european farewell tour -- lisbon,
   aachen, berlin, moscow, kiev -- and immediately began to hit the loud
   notes of seven years of seemingly haphazard foreign policy. judging by
   the agenda, they must be: global trade, "third way" governance,
   humanitarian intervention in africa, global trade again (how many
   presidents take their secretaries of state and commerce on the same
   trip?) and one voodoo-defense leftover from the reagan years, the
   missile defense system. and while clinton talks bananas and
   frankenfood with the eu wednesday and touts the 21st century world
   economy in kiev, it will be his ongoing struggle to put his own happy
   epilogue on the cold war that will make most of the headlines, and
   might just put a sour note on the president's last planned tour of the
   continent. the germans, as they hand clinton the international
   charlemagne prize for his contributions to world peace and european
   unity friday, will complain that a "star wars"-type missile defense
   system could kick off a new multinational arms race and decouple
   america's and europe's security interests by isolating the u.s. behind
   the shield of its dreams. expect similar resistance at clinton's
   weekend summit with russian president vladimir putin: the pair may
   finalize a deal to each destroy 34 metric tons of weapons-grade
   plutonium, but white house aides are setting expectations very, very
   low on the star wars discussions. "i do not expect any agreements to
   be reached on these issues," national security adviser samuel berger
   told cnn on sunday. anti-western sentiment in russia over nato and
   kosovo has mushroomed in the past few years, and the country is still
   mired in economic decrepitude despite the imf's best efforts. add
   years of non-progress on arms-control, and berger may have unwittingly
   summed up clinton's russia legacy as well as anyone. but hey, how
   'bout that global economy?