Cohen on Bush's missile briefing rejection: 'That's the end of it' - May 29, 2000
washington (cnn) -- secretary of defense william cohen said monday that,
   because texas gov. george w. bush had rejected his offer for the joint
   chiefs of staff to brief the republican presidential candidate on the
   national missile defense system, "that's the end of it." "this
   certainly was an effort on my part to say there are issues involved
   here in terms of the balance between offense and defense, and i think
   that it (a briefing) would be helpful, if governor bush wanted that
   opportunity, to take advantage of that. since he's not, i think that's
   the end of it," cohen said. the defense secretary said missile
   reductions below those agreed to by president bill clinton and
   russia's former president boris yeltsin could heat up the arms race.
   "what happens, as you get down to lower numbers, your strategic
   commanders and their recommendations to the president tend to become
   less flexible," he said, referring to a theory called the "tyranny of
   small numbers." "it could cause a future president to be in a position
   of having to use our systems or lose them under the threat of attack;
   it could cause a change in our targeting policies, and it could also
   compromise our ability to maintain a sufficient number of bombers in
   our force, which would compromise our conventional capability of using
   them during times of conflict, such as we did in kosovo. so there are
   some intricacies involved." "i think these need to be discussed,"
   cohen continued. "apparently, governor bush would simply rely upon his
   own advisers, and that's fine. i made the offer, it's been rejected
   and, again, that's the end of it." cohen had extended the offer
   sunday, on nbc's "meet the press." it came in response to a speech
   last tuesday in which the gop presidential candidate proposed
   unilateral reductions in nuclear weapons below the clinton
   administration's proposed floor of 2,000-2,500 and a funding increase
   for the so-called "star wars" missile-defense shield. "i think it
   would be important, because if this is going to become an area of
   debate in the fall elections, then i think both candidates ought to
   have equal opportunity to have access to the information," cohen said.
   after such a briefing, "i think, he and vice president [al] gore will
   be in a better position to debate this in a way that is responsible
   and, i think, informed," cohen told nbc. bush's proposal could wind up
   heating up the arms race, encouraging the world's nuclear powers to
   develop more nuclear weapons, said cohen, himself a republican. "that
   would be, i believe, the end result, because you can overwhelm
   defenses by proliferating the numbers," added cohen. bush's rejection
   came sunday, a few hours after the offer was made. "surely he's
   [cohen's] not suggesting that governor bush's advisers," such as
   former defense secretary dick cheney and former chairman of the joint
   chiefs of staff, gen. colin powell, "who have led our defenses in the
   past, don't understand them," said mindy tucker, spokeswoman for the
   bush campaign. "we are confident that the joint chiefs would welcome
   governor bush's approach, because it makes sure military planners are
   involved in determining the appropriate levels of security based on
   new guidance in a new security era," said tucker. tucker said bush
   would be "happy" to attend briefings at the "appropriate time."
   typically, presidential candidates receive briefings from the
   administration after they are formally nominated at the political
   conventions. tucker added the bush campaign hoped that those briefings
   would not be "politicized." the russians have indicated they are
   against the u.s. building any missile defense system. cohen argued
   sunday in their favor. by 2005, he said, north korea, iran, libya and
   iraq might "be in the position to have an intercontinental ballistic
   missile capability that could threaten the united states." "i believe
   we have to have a method of protecting our people against threats from
   rogue nations, those that have limited capacities to launch an attack,
   or threaten to launch an attack," cohen said.