CNN.com - Jobs announces delay in new Mac operating system - May 15, 2000
from san francisco bureau chief greg lefevre san jose, california (cnn)
   -- apple computer interim ceo steve jobs told the annual apple world
   wide (software) developers conference on monday that he will delay the
   release of the next generation macintosh operating system, os x, until
   january. speaking from a huge stage at the cavernous san jose
   convention center, jobs said he wants to give the developers more time
   to get more programs to work on os x. earlier this year, jobs had
   promised the new os for this fall. jobs says the new operating system
   will run differently than macs of the past, but some features will
   look familiar. months ago, jobs promised a "gentle migration" from the
   os of old to the new. but early reviewers complained about the lack of
   a "finder," that collection of symbols on the screen that told you
   what software was on. monday, jobs smiled and told the crowd he had
   heard, and the "finder feature" was back on. the most important
   feature of the new os remains: a software crash won't lock up the
   whole computer. despite the delay, you can try it yourself soon. jobs
   announced that he'll give the public a beta version of the os x this
   summer. anyone can have it, based on the hope that they'll feed ideas
   for improvements back to apple. os x is based in part on the linux
   operating system. linux is open source. anyone can see all the lines
   of code and tweak and fix to their heart's content. microsoft's
   windows is closed. only microsoft engineers can change it. linux, as
   open source, is constantly being improved by ideas from users the
   world over. so, jobs hopes, people worldwide will feed in ideas and
   fixes for the open source os x. here are some specifics of the new
   operating system: mac os x will show the name of the program that's
   open on the menu line, left of what we now see as the file and edit
   menus. the on screen dock at the bottom gets even cooler. programs or
   documents can be dragged to the bottom of the screen to sit there
   until needed again. to whoops and applause from the audience, jobs
   delighted in showing how a document slinks and morphs from full size
   on the screen into a tiny square shaped icon along the bottom. a
   nearly infinite number of variations allows the icons along the bottom
   to grow and compress, change shape and color, even rearrange
   themselves. "fit and finish" were themes jobs repeated throughout the
   hourlong presentation. the programs must look cool and run smoothly.
   this day they did. no glitches or freezes. it did take one web page a
   while to come up the first time. it was cnn.com. "must be a busy day
   at cnn," jobs said as the browser on the huge display above him took a
   long pause before text and graphics cascaded down the screen.
   reliability was the other theme. make it work well and make it work
   more easily, jobs repeated. to that end, he says mac os x is also
   based in part on the linux operating system because of its crash
   resistance and reliability. jobs gave each of the developers apple's
   newest version of the os x developers materials, called preview 4. he
   said it contained about "99 percent" of what software developers need
   to write their products to run on mac os x. these previews are
   software written specifically for programmers who want to make their
   products work on macs. apple says so far more than 200 major software
   companies have announced they will write new programs or convert their
   present ones to run on mac os x. jobs repeatedly used microsoft's
   internet explorer 5 browser to demonstrate the products. he put to
   rest any thoughts of dumping ie5 as the installed browser. "the
   (microsoft) ie5 team worked their tails off to do this," he said.
   "besides, it's a great product." the mac os x is rapidly developing a
   fan base of its own. the 3,000 attendees who filled the hall to
   standing room only cheered the loudest when jobs showed apple's latest
   convert: alias/wavefront's maya. maya is a monster animation software
   package most commonly associated with "industrial strength" motion
   picture computer animation. it will join the mac fold next year. movie
   fans who saw mighty joe young rampage through the carnival saw maya's
   work. remember the pod race in "star wars episode one"? maya worked on
   that. so what are these guys doing adapting their software to run on a
   store-bought desktop mac? "os x is powerful," maya's richard kerris
   told me. he cited three reasons for what will be a nearly yearlong
   effort to convert 25 million lines of code to play on the new mac os.
   his customers demanded it, he wants apple users as his customers, and
   he likes os x. maya is what is called "command line" software. an
   animation artist would type in instructions for each phase of the
   animation. in the mac version demonstrated for the developers, with a
   click and pull of the mouse an operator reshaped an animated face and
   watched it change shapes as he pulled it through a virtual knothole,
   twisted it and turned it. maya's press statements say the conversion
   to the mac os will allow an animator to "do in five minutes what it
   used to take him half a day to do." and, kerris says, the desktop mac
   g4 computer is extremely popular with web animators and many film and
   motion picture post production artists. jobs also touted the addition
   of adobe's indesign to the mac os fold. bruce chizen, adobe's
   president, praised jobs for his efforts to keep the operating system
   free choice issue alive -- to more cheers. then adobe's daniel edmonds
   showed off indesign's graphics and page layout program using the still
   aborning mac os x. the delay in the operating system is to be expected
   for so radical change, those in the crowd said to each other. what's a
   few months? one asked. microsoft's windows were more than a year late.
   apple also says it has downloaded 50 million copies of its quicktime
   video and audio software. jobs debuted some changes due this summer,
   including changes in the "channels" panel that used to slide out of
   the bottom of the picture. criticized as one of apple's few poor
   design decisions, it is removed. channels now appear on the playback
   screen itself, more in the look of a browser. quicktime is rapidly
   gaining favor with internet programmers for its clearer video and ease
   of use. jobs joked that he should distribute the new copies on boxes
   of breakfast cereal, taking a cue from america online's mass
   distribution of software discs for its service. (america online is
   seeking to merge with time warner, the parent company of cnn and
   cnn.com.) the new version of quicktime this summer will feature mpeg1
   video compression for higher definition video, flash 4 for more
   dramatic animations, and a spiffed up quicktime virtual reality.
   quicktime vr now shows panoramas or images in full circle. the new
   version shows an image or place in all directions. the example shown
   depicted a church image where the viewer could pan right and left in a
   full circle, look at the ceiling and study the floor. quicktime vr is
   already in use by some real estate sites to show off homes. now house
   hunters can examine the carpets and chandeliers as well. apple
   promotes quicktime with pages of movie trailers at the apple.com
   internet site. the company says nielsen internet ratings list theirs
   as the net's most popular site for movie trailers. the latest online
   trailer hit is "lord of the rings" from new line cinema, with
   12-million downloads.