CNN.com - Macau bids for Vegas riches - February  8, 2002
macau, china -- the chinese gambling haven of macau has dealt out three
   new gaming licenses, breaking a 40-year monopoly and turning to a
   touch of vegas-style glitz to revive its floundering economy. the
   concessions on friday went to stanley ho, macau's casino king who held
   a monopoly for 40 years; steve wynn, the las vegas casino tycoon who
   developed the mirage and bellagio; and galaxy casino, linked to the
   u.s. las vegas sands and local businessmen. macau hopes the las vegas
   showmen will give the city a makeover, casting off its dowdy image and
   adding world-class entertainment, sports and tourist attractions to an
   industry that has operated as a monopoly since the 1930s. "the
   combination of these three companies will be beneficial to the
   development of macau's gaming and tourism industry," reuters quoted
   francis tam, secretary for economy and finance, as saying. "we want
   gaming and tourism together to become the leading industry in macau,
   boosting the economy as a whole," he added. the lure for u.s. casinos
   is asia's legendary high rollers, among the most coveted customers in
   las vegas. macau's casinos are the backbone of the economy, raking in
   some us$2.2 billion in 2000, or about 35 percent of the enclave's
   gross domestic product. last year ho's 11 casinos alone pulled in some
   $15.5 billion, most of which came from 10 million tourists,
   three-quarters of whom came to macau purely to gamble. each operator
   was expected to spend about four billion patacas (us$500 million) in
   developing their casino concessions, tam said. once a quiet and
   colorful portuguese trading post known for its european flair, macau
   has been down on its luck for years. the 11 casinos run by billionaire
   ho provide the lifeblood for the economy and its 450,000 inhabitants
   but portugal ignored the distant outpost during the final decades of
   colonial rule and macau drifted into decay and lawlessness. its
   once-quiet streets were the scene of turf wars among rival chinese
   triad gangs and perhaps the most striking european trait was a legion
   of imported prostitutes slouching in doorways. when macau reverted to
   china in 1999, its new beijing-backed leader, banker edmund ho,
   cracked down on crime and said gaming competition was the best bet for
   its future. that may be where wynn, 59, comes in. the spare-no-cost
   casino master was a driving force in the 1990s behind the las vegas
   mirage and bellagio. he is working on another las vegas mega-casino,
   the 45-storey le reve. the influx of new blood also includes the
   galaxy casino, grouping hong kong and macau interests with the
   expertise of las vegas sands inc. the sands owns the venetian casino
   in las vegas, which boasts its own grand canal and gondolas. the nine
   finalists revealed little about their macau plans. details will be
   hammered out in negotiations that are expected to go until march 31.
   macau named three alternates in case any of the winners drops out
   during the contract negotiations. the alternates are: mgm mirage, mp
   entertainment company ltd - a joint venture between park place
   entertainment inc and mandalay resort group, and macau star, linked to
   malaysia's genting bhd.