CNN.com - Entertainment - Travolta brings Hubbard's 'Battlefield Earth' to the big screen - May 9, 2000
atlanta (cnn) -- much has been written about john travolta's involvement
   in scientology, the spiritual and philosophical organization founded
   by sci-fi author l. ron hubbard. but travolta was first introduced to
   hubbard by a book, not his teachings, when he read the author's 1982
   fiction best-seller "battlefield earth." like the book's 6 million
   other readers, travolta says, he loved the story of how humanity, led
   by hero jonnie goodboy tyler, overcomes an alien race that has
   enslaved them and the planet at the turn of the year 3000. unlike
   other readers, travolta was, you know, john travolta, someone who
   could actually turn it into a movie. but even for the man who was the
   disco king of the '70s, the where-is-he-now poster child of the '80s
   and the silver-screen comeback of the '90s, it took until the year
   2000 for him to produce hubbard's vision at the multiplex. "i could
   never get a script right," travolta says in a recent visit here to
   promote the film. "cut to years later and i have this comeback, and
   i'm too old to play jonnie, and it's time to play the villain." along
   with his producing duties, travolta portrays terl, a 9-foot-tall alien
   and chief of security for earth. terl, travolta says, is a "comic
   villain" who is bent on a blind revenge against just about everyone he
   encounters when he finds out that his promotion off earth has been
   denied. "my character is always blackmailing, leveraging, taking
   advantage of others," he says. "battlefield earth" is based on the
   first half of hubbard's novel. it's the kind of special-effects,
   eardrum-blowing bonanza that has come to characterize summer fare. the
   warner bros. release doesn't hit theaters until friday, and already
   there's talk of a sequel using the second half of the book. it was
   directed by roger christian, who came recommended to travolta by
   george lucas. christian worked with lucas on the original "star wars"
   as a set decorator, and on "star wars: episode i -- the phantom
   menace" as a second unit director. when he saw the finished product,
   travolta says, "it blew me away. we hit every note the reader loved,
   almost by survey." so, are there any scientology references in the
   movie? travolta, traditionally reluctant to discuss his scientology
   beliefs, shrugs off the question. but he points to a theme that is
   prevalent throughout the action-adventure, and it sounds like one of
   hubbard's guiding principles. "jonnie's tribe (is) led to believe that
   every star in the sky is kind of a god or something," travolta says.
   "and jonnie is saying, 'look, that may not be the case here. we may
   have to do something ourselves to fix this situation, because right
   now nothing's helping us.' that was one of the middle themes, you
   know." the release of the film comes at a busy time for travolta.
   though the project has been his "baby" for 18 years, his wife, actress
   kelly preston, last month gave birth to ella bleu, the couple's second
   child and first daughter. "we're a pretty happy household right now,"
   he says. "battlefield earth" is a production of cnn interactive sister
   company warner bros., a time warner property.