CNN.com - India, Pakistan on high alert - December 17, 2001
new delhi, india -- india says it is weighing military and diplomatic
   measures against pakistan, which it blames for the recent suicide
   attack on its parliament in new delhi. india has said thursday's
   operation was planned by pakistan's intelligence agency and carried
   out by five pakistanis. thirteen people were killed in the raid,
   including the attackers. both india and pakistan are now on high
   alert, the associated press reports. some lawmakers have proposed that
   india bomb terrorist training camps they say are scattered across
   pakistan. the united states has urged the rival neighbors to exercise
   restraint, with secretary of state colin powell saying the situation
   "has the potential of becoming very dangerous." india says the attack
   on parliament was planned by jaish-e-mohammad and lashkar-e-taiba,
   islamic groups fighting to separate the mostly muslim region of
   kashmir from india, and accuses the pakistani intelligence agency of
   complicity. islamabad has promised to crack down on militants based in
   pakistan. pakistan's information secretary, anwar mahmood, said his
   country would act on any "credible proof" that the jaish-e-mohammed
   cooperated in the assault, but dismissed india's claim of pakistani
   government involvement. "the blame game must end," the government
   spokesman was quoted as saying by pakistan's official news agency.
   "pakistan expects india to look into the matter in a dispassionate
   manner." india's home minister, lal krishna advani, has suggested
   india would have the right to send troops across the border to chase
   islamic guerrillas. "if one country attacks its neighbor or sends its
   people to indulge in sabotage and killings, hot pursuit is regarded as
   a legitimate response," he told star news television late sunday. the
   u.s. meanwhile has urged india to complete its investigation of the
   attack before it decides on its course of action. "we would certainly
   look to them (the indian government) to finish their investigation and
   then consider what action might be appropriate," u.s. state department
   spokesman richard boucher told a daily briefing. "in our contacts with
   pakistan, we've also made clear that we think that they need to
   address terrorist activities within their borders, especially the
   activities of militant groups," reuters reports boucher saying. "we're
   looking ... to work with them (both countries) on a broader campaign
   against terrorism. that is the goal and we would hope that nothing
   would occur that would make it more difficult to pursue that
   campaign," he said. the state department's coordinator for
   counterterrorism, francis taylor, will visit india, probably in early
   january, for detailed talks on cooperation. pakistan and india have
   fought three wars since independence in 1947. many indian lawmakers
   are demanding that the military cross the frontier in the disputed
   northern state of kashmir to carry out attacks similar to the israeli
   strikes in palestinian areas. they say the parliament attack was the
   last straw for the nation that has lost 54,000 people to separatist
   and terrorist violence in five decades. meanwhile, one of the five
   pakistani terrorists killed during the suicide attack on india's
   parliament was also involved in the hijacking of an indian airlines
   plane two years ago, the suspected ringleader of the raid has told
   police. the man -- known as mohammed, 'burger' or sunny ahmed qazi --
   is believed to have stabbed to death a honeymooner on the ill-fated
   indian airlines plane bound for kandahar in december 1999. mohammed
   afzal, one of two suspects arrested in srinagar on sunday, told the
   authorities of mohammed's involvement in the hijacking, the head of
   jammu and kashmir police has told journalists. four arrests were made
   across delhi and the state of jammu and kashmir. one of the men taken
   in was syed a. r. gilani, a lecturer at delhi university, who led the
   police to afzal. "the first breakthrough came with the arrest of the
   lecturer with the terrorists who attacked parliament" delhi police
   commissioner a. r sharma told journalists. two others were caught
   chalking out their escape route, armed and in possession of $200,000.
   investigators are now trying to match photos of the slain mohammed
   with those of the hijacker.