CNN.com - Williams scores with Olympic theme - January 17, 2002
london, england (cnn) -- john williams, the legendary composer
   responsible for dozens of film scores, including "star wars" and
   "harry potter," is adding the 2002 winter olympics to his resume.
   williams was at the historic abbey road studios in london recently to
   cut his latest masterpiece, "call of the champions" -- the opening
   theme to the salt lake city games. at nearly 70, his career has been
   rich and varied: more than 80 film scores, numerous tv themes, two
   symphonies, five oscars, 39 oscar nominations, 17 grammys, three
   golden globes and two emmys. olympic-sized music is nothing new to
   williams -- he composed the official theme to the 1996 summer games in
   atlanta, "summon the heroes," as well as the themes to the los angeles
   and seoul olympics. the salt lake theme is performed by the mormon
   tabernacle choir. his father, also a professional musician, would be
   proud. "before i even went into the primary grade of school, i began
   to learn to read music, i think, maybe even before i began to read
   words, or about the same time," williams told cnn while working in
   london. "so it's been a commitment from the very earliest time in my
   life to something that i never really had an alternative view to
   compare it to." williams went straight from music school to becoming
   the staff pianist for a motion picture company. he worked his way from
   that job to orchestration -- and then, as he puts it, "a little bit of
   composing" for films. he worked on alfred hitchcock's last film, and
   most if not all of steven spielberg's movies, in addition to george
   lucas' "star wars" series. "for a composer, film work is a wonderful
   opportunity to find the chance and opportunity to write music and
   contribute to a thing like this," he says, "to reach not thousands of
   people like we do with a concert, but millions, maybe even in the case
   of 'star wars,' billions of people ultimately will see this and hear
   the music. "there's something about cinema itself that is a medium
   that needs to have music. there really is nothing in existence to call
   a silent film. even in the old silent film days, there was always
   someone playing the piano or the organ or singing or playing the
   violin. "people sometimes say, 'where do you get the inspirations,
   where does it come from?' and basically i can say it can come from the
   film itself -- you have wonderful characters and scenes and
   atmospheres in these films, and the films really almost suggest the
   music that wants to live within it. "and so i find it an inspiring
   medium and a rewarding one in so many ways, in musical ways and
   dramatic ways and all of the other considerations that make it a
   really, a very happy working life for me." it's also been a more
   powerful experience for moviegoers. "all of life is such that most
   people's lives are not remembered, and so many of us do wonderful
   things, and i just think to be remembered at all for anything would be
   a marvellous thing."