CNN.com - First 'Star Wars: Episode II' trailer released - November  5, 2001
(cnn) -- the premiere of "star wars: episode ii -- attack of the clones"
   is more than six months away, but fans are getting a brief first look
   at the latest film in the wildly popular george lucas series. a
   trailer of the upcoming 2002 release -- about 45 seconds long -- was
   released to media outlets monday. the trailer also was shown to movie
   audiences who went to see the pixar animated film "monsters, inc."
   over the weekend. though an official plot is being kept under wraps,
   the second film in the three-part prequel to the original "star wars"
   series is expected to follow anakin skywalker as he succumbs to the
   dark side of "the force" and eventually transforms into darth vader.
   the trailer features the trademark sinister breathing of darth vader,
   set against images from "episode ii," including plenty of digital
   wizardry and battle scenes. it ends with the clashing of light sabers.
   "episode ii -- attack of the clones" comes out may 22. but fans aren't
   waiting to offer their opinions. a visit to starwars.com -- the
   "official" fan site for everything "star wars" -- reveals plenty of
   message-board reviews of the trailer. some fans say they shelled out
   cash just to see the preview at a "monsters, inc." showing, then left
   before the "monsters" main attraction (which, by the way, led
   box-office receipts over the weekend, raking in $63.5 million). "i
   paid $5, saw the very cool trailer with my friends and then walked
   out," said a message board poster with the handle "levon root."
   although there seems to be a difference of opinion in the merits of
   the trailer -- some called it "awesome," others expressed
   disappointment -- there was some consensus on a few issues: -- it was
   "dark" in style, according to at least two posters. -- it wasn't long
   enough to satisfy hungry fans. -- natalie portman, who stars as queen
   amidala, looked "hot." some were moved by more than just portman's
   beauty. "it was freakin' awesome!!!!" posted jacenggf. others said
   that lucas, the creator of the movie series, should have offered more
   on the subject of plot development. "it is pretty much designed to
   say, 'don't forget that "episode ii" comes out in six months!' it is
   not meant to reveal plot points, particular characters, or even
   music," posted etv666. others, such as poster jorelkaster, had mixed
   emotions: "i need to see more. it's like i am starving for a feast and
   i get thrown a bone, but what a bone it was." the "star wars" series
   is one of the most successful film franchises of all time. the first
   "star wars" came out 1977, wowing audiences with its special effects
   and adventurous plot that pitted space-traveling knights engaging in
   an ultimate fight between good and evil. it has taken in more than $1
   billion in box office and rental receipts worldwide. "the empire
   strikes back" (1980) and "return of the jedi" (1983) rounded out the
   first trilogy. "star wars: episode i -- the phantom menace," the first
   part of the prequel trilogy, came out in 1999 and, despite poor
   reviews, has raked in nearly $1 billion in worldwide box office
   receipts alone.