CNN.com - Quiet U.S. trading session predicted - Nov. 21, 2001
november 21, 2001 posted: 1407 gmt
   new york (cnnfn) -- investors saw signs of some improvement in the
   economy wednesday -- in the form of a drop in weekly jobless claims --
   as wall street prepares for thanksgiving and ponders whether the
   recent sustained rebound in the markets has the staying power to rally
   into the new year.at 8:45 a.m. et, the nasdaq-100 and standard &
   poor's 500 futures were little changed, indicating a flat start at the
   open.the government's weekly data on initial unemployment claims came
   in better than expected, falling to 427,000 for the week ended nov. 17
   from a revised 442,000 a week earlier, according to the labor
   department. economists surveyed by briefing.com had forecast 452,000
   initial filings.the big market run-up of the past two months has run
   smack into the thanksgiving weekend. traders and investors will be
   distracted by their holiday preparations, with a quiet session
   expected. the stock markets are closed thursday and will be open for
   about a half a day friday."the stock market could be on track for a
   recovery," said economist kathleen camilli on cnn money morning. "the
   stock market is one of the key leading economic indicators and it
   tends to turn up about six months before the official end of
   recession. so, if in fact it stays up now, it would be signaling that
   the recession could be over sometime next june."within a half-hour of
   the opening bell, the university of michigan's revised report on
   consumer sentiment in november will find its way to the newswires. the
   index is expected to remain unchanged at a weak 83.5.asian stocks
   finished mixed wednesday, with tokyo's nikkei index up at the end of
   the day. european bourses were lower at midday.treasury prices fell in
   early trading, with the 10-year note yield rising to 4.92 percent from
   4.86 percent late tuesday. the dollar gained against the euro and yen.
   brent oil futures rose 25 cents to $19 a barrel in london.in corporate
   news, managed care provider wellpoint health networks (wlp: research,
   estimates) †agreed tuesday to acquire carefirst bluecross blueshield,
   a mid-atlantic health care insurer, for $1.3 billion. wellpoint fell
   $1.11 to $118.25 in before-hours trading wednesday.warner bros.'
   "harry potter and the sorcerer's stone" matched the record for
   reaching $100 million in ticket sales in the shortest period, four
   days, that was set by "star wars, episode one: the phantom menace."†
   aol time warner (aol: research, estimates), parent of warner bros. and
   cnn/money, closed tuesday at $36.97, down 78 cents.shares of energy
   provider enron †(ene: research, estimates) could remain pressured
   wednesday, a day after the company warned it could be forced because
   of a credit downgrade to pay a $690 million debt by next week.
   questions also continue to swirl about its financial condition,
   casting new doubts on its proposed purchase by dynegy (dyn: research,
   estimates) shares of enron dropped 55 cents to $6.44 in before-hours
   trading wednesday, while dynegy dropped 93 cents to