CNN.com - showbuzz - January  7, 2002
radnor, pennsylvania (ap) -- actor and director robert redford insists
   he'll keep his wrinkles. redford, who turned 64 in august, told tv
   guide in its january 12 issue that plastic surgery was not in his
   future. "i'm not a facelift person. i am what i am," redford said.
   redford, interviewed as his annual sundance film festival was set to
   open in park city, utah, said he did not want to put down the
   practice. "it is ok for some people," he said. but the "trade-off is
   that something of your soul in your face goes away," he said. "you end
   up looking body-snatched in the last analysis. that's just my view.
   it's not necessarily a popular view." last year, redford starred in
   "spy game" with brad pitt and "the last castle" with james gandolfini.
   memphis, tennessee (ap) -- elvis presley fans will celebrate his
   january 8 birthday by remembering the king of rock 'n' roll as both a
   singer and soldier. presley served a two-year hitch in the army and
   was discharged in 1960 with the rank of sergeant. following the
   september 11 terrorist attacks, the focus on presley's military
   service seem appropriate, said todd morgan, a spokesman for graceland.
   "elvis was a patriot," morgan said. several hundred admirers -- most
   of them fan club officers _ planned to be in memphis this weekend for
   the 67th anniversary of presley's birth. presley died at age 42 in
   1977. a dance tuesday night is dubbed "gi, red, white and blues" and
   presley's film "gi blues" will play on a big screen in a hotel
   ballroom. pasadena, california (ap) -- documentarian ken burns hopes
   his upcoming biography of mark twain will mean a little more respect
   for the 19th century american author. at a lecture saturday at the
   california institute of technology, burns said twain was one of the
   country's greatest writers and a profound thinker who was not given
   his due because he used humor to make his points. twain needed his
   sense of humor to survive several personal tragedies, including a very
   public bankruptcy, burns said. the biography will air on public
   television jan. 14 and 15. it follows a trio of documentaries burns
   created on critical pieces of the american experience: the civil war,
   baseball and jazz. "in a sense i've made the same film over and over
   again. in all of them i've asked, 'who are we as americans?"' burns
   said. seattle, washington (ap) -- the new "star wars" movie doesn't
   open until may 16, but john guth and jeff tweiten already have their
   spots in line. guth, 32, and tweiten, 24, took their places outside
   the cinerama theater on january 1. they plan to wait there, taking
   snooze breaks in sleeping bags or a nearby van, for more than four
   months, until the curtain opens on "star wars episode ii: attack of
   the clones." the pair is undeterred by the fact that even cinerama
   management doesn't yet know whether the movie will play at the
   theater. guth is president of the seattle star wars society and
   tweiten is one of the club's roughly 1,200 members. guth said
   donations from society members cover food costs. they're killing time
   in line reading, watching movies on a portable dvd player and talking
   to people waiting for more current fare. "i admire their enthusiasm
   for the movie, but as it's been proven in the past, everyone who wants
   to see this or any other film will be able to get tickets for it,"
   said brian callaghan, spokesman for general cinema, which manages the
   cinerama. and if the movie should open elsewhere locally? "then we'll
   go there," guth said.