CNN.com - GoldDerby.com's Tom O'Neil: Handicapping awards season - January  6, 2002
(cnn) -- awards season has begun. the grammy nominations were announced
   friday; the american film institute followed saturday by handing out
   their first annual awards. they'll be followed by the american music
   awards, the golden globes, the directors guild nominations, the screen
   actors guild nominations, and -- on february 12 -- the oscar
   nominations. "cnn sunday morning" anchor martin savidge talked with
   tom o'neil, host of the handicapping and informational web site
   goldderby.com and author of "movie awards" to talk about all the
   honors. martin savidge, cnn anchor: which nominees are most likely to
   walk away with a grammy? we've got a guest to give us his grammy
   predictions, as well as some thoughts on the afi awards. tom o'neil is
   the author of "movie awards" and a host of goldderby.com. he joins us
   now from new york. good morning to you. tom o'neil, author, "movie
   awards": thanks for having me, martin. savidge: the afi awards --
   we'll start with them since they've already been. i've obviously heard
   about this organization, but their awards, is this something new?
   o'neil: this is brand new, and it's really controversial because the
   afi are introducing their awards before everybody else's, including
   two weeks before the golden globes, which normally kick off the
   season. and they speak with the voice of the film industry itself,
   because this is hollywood's lobby group in washington, d.c. so the
   question hangs over the entire derby that we're about to begin here:
   is it already over with? how can the oscars possibly disagree with
   that other voice in their own industry? savidge: do we need another
   movies presentation or awards presentation program? o'neil: probably
   not. right now we have more than 35 award shows in prime time
   television. and if one breaks the camel's back, it could be afi.
   savidge: well, at any rate, it looks like -- you know, i thought maybe
   they'd be something new. they might be cutting edge, they might give
   us some -- some out-there type awards for films perhaps most of us
   didn't think about. but they didn't. they went fairly conservative,
   didn't they? o'neil: they went conservative in some categories, like
   for sissy spacek for best actress. but i think there was a major
   surprise for denzel washington as best actor in "training day." and
   "lord of the rings" victory as best picture is a surprise, in a way,
   because what the afi is doing by sanctioning this by the best of the
   year is telling us it's not just a film fantasy, it's not just a kid's
   movie, this is major cinema. if this goes all the way to march 24 at
   the academy awards, it will be the very first film fantasy every to
   win the top oscar. remember, "e.t." lost to "gandhi" and "star wars"
   lost to "annie hall." savidge: one of the movies i was surprised did
   not get an award even though it was nominated [was] "black hawk down."
   o'neil: yes, i think a lot of us expected it to be there because not
   only did it get great reviews, it seems to speak to our times right
   now. often these awards like to acknowledge that. and ridley scott,
   the director of this film, remember, swept the oscars last year with
   "gladiator." savidge: and then you mentioned best actress. i thought
   halle berry had a shot. o'neil: i thought halle berry was going to
   win, yes. and i think we may see her come back at the golden globes in
   a few weeks. so hang in there -- halle could still go all the way to
   the oscars. savidge: all right. well, let's move on now to the
   grammys. and there, again, it seems like the nominations fall along
   somewhat predictable lines, or do you disagree? o'neil: they're very
   predictable in terms of u2. u2 has dominated the grammys all the way
   going back to 1988, when they won album of the year for "joshua tree."
   they won best record last year for "beautiful day." and now here they
   come, probably, with an album that is the front-runner for best album
   this year, and they certainly swept the nominations. they had the
   most, with eight. savidge: well who else do you like there? was there
   a surprise or someone that you thought got a nom that perhaps you
   didn't expect? o'neil: well the big jaw-dropper, of course, was
   india.arie and how well she did at the nominations. she scored the
   most bids among solo artists, seven, which was one more than alicia
   keys, who we thought was going to be the r&b diva that would dominate
   these nominations. india.arie became a star really thanks to september
   11 and the duet she did with john mellencamp, "peaceful world." and
   once she got on everybody's radar screen with that, they decided she's
   pretty good. and the grammys now have maybe a case of a showbiz
   cinderella here, and what we saw at grammy nominations friday morning
   was a classic case of "a star is born." savidge: well, all right, i'm
   going to use a name that probably makes all music lovers cringe: 'n
   sync. no nominations, nothing. and, yet -- i mean, they have a huge
   influence on music; they're listened to by millions around the world.
   what about groups like that? is it that we're just so highbrow they
   don't get in? o'neil: well that was, i think, the biggest story among
   the grammy nominations this year -- there was no bubble-gum in there.
   and we're used to seeing 'n sync, backstreet boys and britney spears
   do well at the grammys in recent years. i think what we saw across the
   board in the top categories was that the music world is as serious
   these days as the whole world after september 11, and what we've got
   is very serious music up for the top awards. savidge: yes, well maybe
   we got a little too serious. all right. o'neil: maybe so. savidge: tom
   o'neil, he is the author of "movie awards" and the host of
   goldderby.com. again, nice talking with you, and thanks for coming in.
   o'neil: thank you, marty.