CNN.com - Lines forming for 'Star Wars' -- already - April 11, 2002
los angeles, california (ap) -- a handful of die-hard "star wars" fans
   already have started lining up to see the next movie in the sci-fi
   saga -- more than a month before it opens. "we're just really
   persistent people," said luis lecca, a martial arts instructor who has
   spent eight hours a day waiting and braving hecklers. "we see
   something we want to do and we do it." about a week ago, about 70 fans
   organized by the web site liningup.net pitched camp near the landmark
   grauman's chinese theater, where the original "star wars" premiered in
   1977. they'll wait there in shifts to see the first show when "star
   wars: episode ii -- attack of the clones" opens may 16. the ritual
   began in 1999 when fans, some from as far as australia, organized to
   form a ticket line six weeks before the last film in the series
   opened, said event organizer peter genovese, a 26-year-old college
   student. participants earn time on the line. the amount of time each
   spends waiting determines their position in the final line when
   tickets are sold, genovese said. members of the group also are
   required to donate least $50 for the starlight children's foundation,
   a nonprofit organization working with seriously ill children and their
   families. when the last film in the series, "star wars: episode i --
   the phantom menace," premiered in 1999, a line of 150 people collected
   about $25,000 for the charity, genovese said. among six people
   lounging on the street wednesday was steve elms, a computer network
   operator. keeping contact with his boss through a cellular phone, he
   plans to camp out for the first week and the final week. "i have no
   place else to go," said elms, 39. "it's just fun sitting on hollywood
   boulevard watching the freaks and the tourists walk by." it has not
   been announced when tickets for "attack of the clones" will go on
   sale. in between trips for fast food and late-night debates on the
   intricacies of the "star wars" films, noel lamothe already is busy
   making plans for another cinematic outing. "we're already talking
   about (a line in) 2005 for 'episode iii,"' he said.