CNN.com - Review: An enchanted, spirited 'Potter' - November 21, 2001
(cnn) -- "harry potter and the sorcerer's stone" is -- to borrow a phrase
   from a popular breakfast cereal's advertising campaign -- magically
   delicious. to say this screen adaptation of j.k. rowling's wildly
   successful book has kids and their parents champing at the bit is an
   understatement on par with saying michael jackson has had just a
   little work done on his nose. the making -- and marketing -- of this
   film has been planned like the invasion at normandy, and this is d --
   or should that be p -- day. the screenplay by steven kloves ("wonder
   boys," 2000), with plenty of input from rowling herself, covers most
   of the bases from the original material. in fact, at times, the film
   feels overly stuffed with "moments" from the book. it's as if the
   filmmakers were afraid to leave out any fan's favorite moment, so they
   jammed in a little taste of everything here and there. that said,
   overall the sheer magic of the movie's spirit saves the day. we first
   met harry as an orphaned infant at the time he's being placed on his
   aunt and uncle's doorstep by the headmaster and headmistress of the
   hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry. these two imposing
   figures, albus dumbledore and minerva mcgonagall -- played,
   respectively, by the indomitable richard harris and maggie smith --
   couldn't be better cast. these two british acting veterans are the
   perfect personification of rowling's literary characters. ditto for
   the casting of robbie coltrane as gamekeeper rubeus hagrid, alan
   rickman as professor severus snape, zoe wanamaker as madame hooch and
   john cleese as the nearly headless nick. but the whole success of the
   film falls on the casting of the three best friends who enter hogwarts
   together as first-year students: hermione granger (emma watson), ron
   weasley (rupert grint) and harry potter himself (daniel radcliffe).
   young radcliffe -- with his turned-up nose, round black glasses, and
   wide-eyed aura of beguiling amazement -- is perfect as harry. he may
   not be the acting phenomenon that is haley joel osment, but he is a
   whole lot better than poor jake lloyd from "star wars: episode one."
   radcliffe did have some acting experience; watson and grint did not,
   but they also acquit themselves extremely well. watson has just the
   right degree of brainy smugness, while grint plays the clown to
   perfection. after introducing us to harry's muggle (i.e., human) aunt
   and uncle, vernon and petunia dursley (played by richard griffiths and
   fiona shaw), and depicting the treatment poor harry gets at home, the
   story quickly advances to his admittance into hogwarts. soon young
   witches and warlocks-in-training are playing quidditch games on broom
   sticks, dragons are being hatched, three-headed dogs are attacking,
   and candles are floating in thin air. but there is evil afoot at
   hogwarts, and harry and his friends must find out what it is before
   the school, and maybe even their fellow students, are destroyed.
   director chris columbus ("home alone," 1990 and "mrs. doubtfire,"
   1993) promised to stay faithful to the book, and he did. however, his
   touch can be a little too sentimental and light. there could have been
   a little more weirdness, edginess, and darkness to this story about
   magic spells, dark incantations, and rampaging orcs. other directors
   purposed for the film included ivan reitman, steven spielberg and
   terry gilliam. of the three, it would have been very interesting to
   have seen gilliam's take on this material. but never mind. special
   effects be damned, nothing replaces good old-fashioned imagination.
   many lovers of the book will have already imagined the story in a much
   more spectacular way then any movie could ever achieve. but the
   production design is a marvel, thanks to stuart craig's detailed sets,
   while judianna makovsky's costumes are unique. there have already been
   four potter books published, and supposedly three more are on the way.
   the second movie, "harry potter and the chamber of secrets," is
   already in production for a release in 2002. let's hope that the
   following sequels will be allowed to tackle the darker sides of the
   potter legend. "harry potter and the sorcerer's stone" is not perfect
   and it could have been better. but it will please more than it
   disappoints, and it will make millions. "harry potter and the
   sorcerer's stone" opens nationwide on friday, november 16, and is
   rated pg. warner bros. is an aol time warner sister company of
   cnn.com.