CNN.com - Original crew still on a 'Trek' - November  7, 2001
los angeles, california (cnn) -- the first entry in the "star trek" film
   series was not going to be the grand, special effects-laden
   extravaganza it turned out to be, recalls leonard nimoy. the original
   idea, he says, was to make a tv movie of the week. but then, a certain
   saga set in a "galaxy far, far, away ..." hit cinemas. "i think what
   really made (the film) happen was that in 1977 george lucas released
   'star wars,' " nimoy, the once and always mr. spock, says. "it was a
   gigantic hit, and the people here at paramount said, 'well, there's a
   market for this kind of movie, don't we have something called "star
   trek"?' so we made a movie." twenty-two years later, that first movie
   has warped on to another technology, dvd -- this time with all the
   extras viewers have come to expect from the discs. "star trek: the
   motion picture -- the director's edition," released tuesday, is a
   two-disc set that features a complete digital restoration of the film,
   enhanced visual effects, outtakes, behind-the-scenes documentaries,
   and commentary by its acclaimed director, robert wise. recently, some
   of the original cast and crew gathered at paramount studios for an
   early look at the restored film . for the oscar-winning wise, who made
   his name directing classic musicals like "west side story" and "the
   sound of music," the opportunity to improve the 1979 film was too good
   to resist. "i was delighted because i didn't get a chance to do
   everything i wanted on the film before we had to get it out and get it
   to washington for the [original] premiere," says the 87-year-old
   director. "and so i was delighted when they called me and said, 'do
   you want to do some more work on it?' i said, 'absolutely.' " for
   george "sulu" takei, the reality of working on 'star trek' again after
   so many years didn't sink in until the first day of filming. "i
   started seeing these wonderful familiar faces. the uniform was
   different, but there was leonard, there was bill (shatner, captain
   kirk), there was jimmy (doohan, engineer scott). it was really great."
   although it contains eye-popping visuals, many fans and critics agree
   the movie's cold feel and ponderous pace make it one of the weaker
   entries in the "star trek" film series. still, its box-office success
   paved the way for many sequels, as well as several succeeding tv
   series. "it was exciting in that it was the first of the films," says
   william shatner. "nobody had ever dreamt of it being a major motion
   picture. robert wise was one of the leading lights, one of the great
   directors, and he was quite a force. and so between the idea of it
   being a major motion picture and robert wise directing, it was an
   important moment in all our lives." trekkers can look forward to the
   re-release of other "star trek" films on dvd before too long. both
   shatner and nimoy say they have agreed to provide commentary for the
   upcoming discs. in the meantime, fans can hear shatner and nimoy probe
   each other about "star trek" -- and their private lives -- in a
   no-holds-barred conversation on the shatner-produced dvd, "mindmeld,"
   which also hit stores tuesday. "when the thought had occurred to me
   about doing something like 'mindmeld,' " shatner recalls, "i called
   leonard and asked him about no ground to be untrammeled, we'll go into
   everything. if you feel funny about some area of our lives, we'll make
   sure you feel safe about it in the editing process, but don't hold
   anything back. so the concept was to be as truthful as possible,
   knowing that we wouldn't get hurt like we might in the hands of a
   journalist." but after 35 years of innumerable "star trek" books,
   interviews, documentaries, and conventions, was there anything new and
   original to say? according to nimoy, plenty. "mindmeld is very fresh.
   ... we cover some territory that even we have never discussed before
   between ourselves, very personal stories about how star trek affected
   our lives, how we affected each others lives." one group currently
   affected by "star trek" is the crew of the real u.s.s. enterprise, an
   aircraft carrier now en route to its homebase in norfolk, virginia,
   after successfully completing its mission in the arabian sea. as
   several publications have reported, the ship's crew has been enjoying
   episodes of the new "star trek" tv series, "enterprise," on the
   vessel's mess deck. the tv cast praises their military counterparts.
   "they are the real ones," says george takei. "we were the future
   fiction version and they're the ones that are making whatever we did
   credible. it's their heroism, their commitment, their discipline and
   their victory that's going to make the starship enterprise that much
   more credible." the montreal, quebec-born shatner also had warm words
   for captain kirk's real-life counterparts. "all americans -- and this
   canadian -- wishes our men godspeed and good luck," he says. and
   nimoy's message to the crew? simply this: "live long and prosper."