CNN.com -  - November  7, 2001
los angeles, california (ap) -- "shrek" has become a monster home-video
   hit. consumers spent an estimated $110 million on vhs and dvd versions
   of the digitally animated fairy-tale since its release friday, studio
   officials said. "shrek" has sold more than 7 million units in its
   three days of release. the comedy surpassed "star wars: episode i --
   the phantom menace" as the fastest-selling title for retailers this
   year, a record set just two weeks ago with 2.2 million units sold. "we
   had a record-breaking weekend with nearly half of initial shipments
   sold, with many stores selling completely out of stock," said craig
   kornblau, president of universal studios home video. the film,
   produced by animators pdi and dreamworks skg, was distributed on home
   video by universal. stores have sold 2.5 million double-disc "shrek"
   dvds, priced around $20 each, and 4.5 million vhs cassettes, priced
   around $16 each. "shrek" debuted in may with opening weekend earnings
   of $42.3 million and has earned a total of about $270 million in
   domestic theaters, more than any other film this year. norfolk,
   virginia (ap) -- garth brooks will give a welcome-home concert for the
   crew of the navy aircraft carrier uss enterprise and their families on
   november 21. it will be the second of three "garth brooks: coast to
   coast live" concert specials broadcast by cbs. the first is november
   14 at the forum in los angeles. the site of the third on november 28
   hasn't been determined. the navy said brooks will likely do the
   concert from the flight deck of the enterprise, which is scheduled to
   return to norfolk on saturday after an extended deployment following
   the september 11 terrorist attacks. "i announced last year that i
   won't be touring again," said brooks, who has sold more than 100
   million albums. "but cbs has given me the opportunity to take my music
   to the people in a new way, to have the fun of performing live, and to
   do it in such a way that i don't have to be away from home for long
   periods of time. it's going to be fun." new york (ap) -- sometimes
   it's hard being brad pitt. "my week consists ... five days out of the
   seven i've got at least three cars of paparazzi on me that i've got to
   either lose or whatever," pitt says in the december issue of vanity
   fair magazine. "that's why we all end up hiding and creating communes
   or compounds, because it's work when you go out there in public. you
   can't just go to the doctor, sit in a waiting room, and read a
   magazine. you can't go to the airport and wait for your flight,
   because you get mauled. so there are these little shortcuts." but pitt
   says it's also easy to let to the power of celebrity get out of hand.
   "we are treated as special. we get away with things that other people
   can't. and you start to believe the lie that you are special, that
   you're better than other people. you start demanding that kind of
   treatment. most of the time i fight it because i know i'm going to get
   older and it's going to go away, but at times i succumb to it," the
   37-year-old actor said. "i've got a couple of friends that might as
   well be family, and i've caught myself just ordering one of them to do
   something because you get accustomed to people doing things for you.
   ... it's the money and the power, it just crushes everything."