CNN.com - Which new game console should you buy? - October 30, 2001
(idg) -- nintendo, microsoft and sony are about to butt their collective
   heads in the biggest video-game playoff ever. the gamepro.com editors
   -- dr. zombie, major mike, air hendrix, dan elektro, star dingo,
   four-eyed dragon, brother buzz, tokyo drifter and bad hare -- offer
   their personal picks for the system that will become king of the
   next-generation gaming consoles.my answer to anyone who asks which
   game system to buy -- ps2, xbox or gamecube -- is always met with a
   question of my own: "what games do you like to play?" once they answer
   that question, then i'm more than willing to make recommendations as
   to which game system they should purchase. just because system a has
   more graphic powers than system b means absolutely squat when you
   can't play the games that you want to play. fortunately, many of the
   top tier titles are coming out for all game systems (ie. madden nfl,
   ssx tricky, tony hawk, etc.) but that's a still a select few. if you
   are interested specifically in online gaming, and you want to log on
   today to play someone across the country, then your best choice (and
   best bargain) is to buy a dreamcast system at its super-reduced
   pricing and low-priced game titles. all the other game systems
   promises online capability in the future, but that's the key word...
   the "future." if you want to get online today, there's still only one
   console choice. if you're interested in high-quality sports games,
   then i'd recommend the playstation 2, as they have the largest library
   of sports titles available (including all playstation/ps one games).
   from this large wealth of titles will most certainly be something to
   satisfy your sports craving. sure, there's going to be nfl fever 2002
   at launch for the xbox, but that's about it. what about basketball?
   baseball? soccer? it's all about immediate gratification these days,
   and what's the point about buying a game system that you can't play
   games on?

   if you're looking for sheer magnitude of games to play, then the
   playstation 2 is the obvious choice. with the current library of ps2
   games and the 5-years-plus library of original playstation games, you
   have the largest selection of gaming available for any system in the
   history of console gaming. so what if the ps2's graphic processor and
   cpu mhz doesn't match the gamecube and xbox? at least you've got the
   games. frankly, the difference in graphics and processing speeds are
   not that discernible unless you are a total techfreak.

   if you already have a ps2, then which new system should you purchase?
   that's the tougher question. are you willing to take a risk on a
   brand-new, unproven game system (xbox) with a large variety of
   unproven game titles (amped, fuzion frenzy, halo, etc.) or do you
   choose the granddaddy of video gaming and buy nintendo's gamecube
   which promises a wealth of familiar names and faces (luigi's mansion,
   wave race blue, rogue leader, etc.) but not as large an assortment of
   games? how important is it that you can play dvd's on this new game
   system since you can already play dvds on your ps2? game cube's $100
   price advantage over xbox equates to 2 more games that you can
   purchase at launch over the xbox. then again, look at the games being
   offered. if you already have a ps2, you can experience ssx tricky,
   madden nfl 2002, and tony hawk on that system, so the xbox versions
   would be rather redundant. however, you can't experience luigi's
   mansion, wave race blue, and rogue leader anywhere but on the game
   cube. this zombie is in exactly this position already having a ps2 in
   my crypt, so i'll be wrapping my bony fingers around a game cube this
   holiday before i splurge for the more expensive xbox. it's all a
   matter of choice, but after thinking out all the pro's and con's.
   don't let hype dictate your spending or your gaming enjoyment. control
   your video gaming, don't let the games control you.to me, it all comes
   down to two things: one, the games, and, two, the short term.
   playstation 2: it's ready to clean house with "metal gear solid 2:
   sons of liberty" in november and "final fantasy x" in january. gamers
   can be an impatient bunch and they often want games now rather than
   later, and you can't go wrong with the aforementioned heavy-hitters.
   however, sony has some lofty promises to meet: where's the online
   stuff? where's the hard drive? both items have been announced, but so
   far no firm date has been set for either product to hit the street.
   xbox: third-party support is starting to forcefully appear, especially
   from japanese companies like konami with "silent hill 2: restless
   dreams", capcom's "genma onimusha", and, of course, tecmo's "dead or
   alive 3". the launch has some good stuff lined-up, too, like halo, cel
   damage and nfl fever. yet the controller is still cumbersome and very
   tough to get accustomed to. gamecube: let's face it, the nintendo 64
   thrived on first-party titles, and third-party support was lukewarm at
   best. however, the gamecube has much stronger third-party support,
   particularly the sweet acquisition of all future resident evil titles.
   of course franchises such as mario, zelda, metroid, and f-zero don't
   hurt either, and if you're one of the lucky few who can snag a
   gamecube the day it's released (along with a copy of luigi's mansion),
   you're guaranteed immediate gratification and some sweet days of
   gaming. basically for the short term, the playstation 2 will be king,
   with the gamecube not far behind, and xbox trailing third. however,
   with microsoft's huge war chest, don't be surprised to see some
   exclusive acquisitions in the months ahead. after all, there was a
   rumor flying around that the big m was trying to buy squaresoft for
   one billion dollars... for the first time, we might actually see three
   platforms survive. the ps2 has some undeniably great games, a good
   rep, and a serious foothold in the market. the gamecube seems like a
   lock because, well, it's nintendo, and between their unrelenting
   quality and rabid fanboys, there's not much doubt. the dark horse is
   certainly the xbox, and if not for microsoft's deep pockets, it'd be
   easy to call it the dreamcast 2. but outstanding games like halo make
   the xbox a serious contender. if i had pick to the
   most-likely-to-fail, it'd be the xbox, but i think it has a real
   chance, and its fortunes rest on how much gotta-play-it software
   microsoft delivers in the next year or so. i can't help but see this
   like any other consumer product showdown. coke, pepsi, and 7up; ford,
   chevy, and toyota; nike, reebok, and adidas. they all do the same
   thing really -- quench thirst, get you places, keep shards of broken
   glass out of your feet -- but it's the style with which they do it
   that makes you choose one over another. it's the same thing with this
   year's hardware situation. they all play games, but it's the style
   with which they do it that's going to make you go for one or another.
   but at the end of the day, ask yourself this: do you drink coke,
   pepsi, or 7up because it's what your friends tell you to drink, or
   because it's what you personally enjoy drinking? sony, nintendo, and
   microsoft all have different approaches, and all three won't always
   appeal to everybody, but really, nothing matters but what appeals to
   you personally. when you trust yourself, there is no such thing as a
   "wrong" choice. in other words, don't believe the hype -- believe your
   eyes and your hands and your instincts when you play the games, then
   choose accordingly. everything else is just noise. on a more practical
   tack, the market is still pretty wide open for the long term, but this
   year is going to be sony's at retail. that doesn't mean it's the best
   system, just the most prevalent. by sheer product volume alone, ps2
   will probably sell the most this year -- building on the success of
   the original playstation and keeping its name, the ps2 has got the
   strongest brand identity (because nintendo didn't call their console
   the n65), the most software available, and will have the most units
   physically manufactured. when some people can't find an xbox or
   gamecube, they'll buy a ps2. that might not be you, but it is a vast
   segment of the mass-market consumer who is less concerned with brands
   and more concerned with just playing some cool games. that will factor
   in big for sony, especially now that both of the other consoles have
   had their ship dates revised amid reports that neither company can
   make as many as they'd hoped (xbox) or that retailers want (gamecube).
   so don't be surprised when sony toots its own horn after the holiday
   shopping season -- they pretty much know that their one-year
   jump-start gives them this edge already. also, keep in mind that there
   won't be one clear "winner" in this situation for a good three years.
   traditionally, every video game showdown has whittled down to just two
   competitors. maybe this time it'll be different -- maybe the market
   has grown that much that three can compete and survive. if not, the
   first of this trio to blink and fall off the lead lap won't do so for
   at least another 24 months. that's two years at the minimum, during
   which you'll see exclusive games, several cross-platform ports,
   surprising alliances, price drop face-offs, and tons of other exciting
   but confusing events. be ready for it... just keep an open mind and
   then make it up yourself.what a difference fourteen days makes. if
   you'd asked me two weeks ago, i would have said (1) ps2 takes the lead
   since it's already got a giant pile of must-play games with even more
   to come. then i would have gone with (2) gamecube, because nintendo's
   got way too many killer launch titles i just have to play. i mean,
   star wars... duh. plus, they've got a whole stable of characters and
   games you simply will not ever ever see on any other system. they've
   got a lock on zelda (and, by the way, i love the new parappa thang
   he's got goin' on), and games like pikmin mean nintendo is daring to
   be different these days. then, trailing behind by quite a bit, i would
   have put (3) the xbox. the controller stinks. the hardware's just too
   big. and, most importantly, they just don't have the games. but that
   was two weeks ago. since then, i have spent more time with the xbox,
   and realize that i find myself willing to commit unspeakable acts in
   order to play more halo. yup, halo now sits at the very top of my must
   play list, dethroning star wars and doa3, which, sweet merciful crap,
   looks astonishing. looking beyond the launch lineup, sega's behind
   microsoft more than they're behind nintendo, and the promise of
   shenmue ii and -- eventually -- another panzer dragoon game (rpg or
   otherwise) nearly makes my head explode. and suddenly i'm not so sure
   any more. but ya know what? it's still personal. it's still just about
   the games i want to play, just like it's always been. so now, two
   weeks later, i'd still say ps2 first. it's already got deep, deep
   roots, and i could not imagine life without playing ffx. i pre-ordered
   a gamecube the other day, but not an xbox, but at least now i fully
   intend on getting an xbox sometime after christmas. my advice: if you
   don't have a ps2, get that. if you're near-sighted and like your
   satisfaction like your pudding -- instant -- go with the gamecube.
   those with long-term sight will see the xbox built-in hard drive and
   online support (which, by the way, is why it's so big), meaning games
   will actually use those things, and suddenly the xbox has long, long,
   legs. oh, this is too hard. just go play outside or paint or
   something. this holiday season, we'll be witnessing an extraordinary
   event in the gaming world: nintendo and microsoft will be introducing
   their new game systems, while sony preps for an unforgettable game
   lineup. who will win? who will be supreme? it sounds like an episode
   of the iron chef (sony being the iron chef), but with two challengers
   instead of one -- letting consumers like you and me be judge. but what
   would be the main ingredient? if history serves us right, winners are
   usually created by their software and price. playstation 2 will serve
   some mighty titles to go along with its already strong game library:
   metal gear solid 2, jak and daxter, and nba live 2002 to name a few.
   so what if the ps2 will be the older of the next-gen systems -- the
   future of gaming can easily be represented on this solid system. let's
   hope sony lowers the price, though. many people could be scared of
   xbox's $299, too. but the xbox also has a very sharp game lineup.
   halo, project gotham, and the newest oddworld look and play extremely
   well -- and these are just the first gen games for this system! the
   gamecube, however, is poised to take the crown. it's $199 price will
   give it the edge it needs, since its games are right on par with the
   ps2 and xbox. luigi's mansion and super monkey ball are examples of
   great gameplay and originality. as of now, there is no winner. each
   system has, so far, shown it has the dedication to compete against
   each other without even a hint of giving up.nintendo... what's
   happening at nintendo? the japanese gamecubes and the japanese
   gamecube games so far show that the unit is a solid, well-designed
   games machine in keeping with the nintendo tradition. the controller
   is absolutely cool and amazingly form-fitting to practically any hand.
   nintendo's club tours have also revealed strong third party titles
   especially super monkey ball, star wars rogue squadron, tony hawk's
   pro skater 3, madden nfl 2002. pikmin and super smash bros. melee show
   potential for the post-launch december time frame. but from the small
   corner of the gaming world occupied by angry old video game editors,
   it's extremely strange that at this point just weeks before the
   gamecube's us launch, nintendo of america has not made any of its
   games available for review nor have they revealed a plan for reviewing
   or previewing gamecube games. third party game companies are chomping
   at the bit to have their games reviewed in time for the holiday
   shopping season. the problem is that nintendo has still not revealed
   how game mags are supposed to review them. no debug units (those
   special game cube systems that will play pre-release versions of
   games) have appeared. in fact, nintendo hasn't even officially
   confirmed that debugs are indeed the plan for game reviewers. the
   impression is that no one this side of the pacific knows what the plan
   is. thankfully, on-the-ball game developers have graciously allowed
   reviewers to use their debug units to review their games. however, in
   most cases, there only seem to be one or two debugs at each company.
   this lack of hardware for the people most important to system support,
   game developers, is disturbing. can manufacturing of the new systems
   be on such tight inventory scrutiny that they can't spare the assembly
   line time to produce enough special debug units? it's also extremely
   odd that nintendo of america hasn't bothered to promote its own launch
   games, luigi's mansion and wave race, yet. noa seems to be resolved to
   the fact that most game pubs have already bought japanese gamecubes
   and japanese versions of nintendo games to carry them through to the
   launch. every impression is that nintendo is just content to rest on
   its royal haunches. after all, if anything is to be learned from
   history, it's that if nintendo builds it people will buy it (virtual
   boy excepted). so what do they have to worry about? how about
   microsoft and the xbox? the m squad has brought a lot of hype and a
   lot of excitement into the industry, and the jury's in: the xbox is a
   powerful, honking piece of game equipment. even so, as everyone knows,
   this is microsoft's first safari into video game land, so in a lot of
   ways they're learning stuff as they go. they've nailed a lot of things
   right on, but they're just missing on a few others. for instance, the
   xbox has got an 8-gig hard drive, an ethernet port, and an amazing
   nvidia graphics processor, but there are some things about the unit
   that seem little but are consistently annoying. for example, there's
   no reset button so you have to literally switch the system on and off
   to reset your games; the controller button layout is too spread out;
   to some hands the controller feels too big; and you must purchase a
   special remote control to play dvds. just the same, all's forgiven
   once you load up the impressive games from the first round of xbox
   titles. halo, dead or alive iii, cel damage, nfl fever 2002, munch's
   oddyssee, project gotham racing, madden nfl 2002 are all winners. at
   this time, weeks prior to launch, game mag reviewers are enjoying the
   luxury of excess, courtesy of microsoft. unlike nintendo, they've bent
   over backwards to help editors hit their deadlines. they've been busy
   hauling xboxes all over the country with games loaded onto the hard
   drives for review. and even as microsoft has begun to back away from
   its blustery pronouncement that there'd be 600,000 to 800,000 units
   available at launch, it was interesting to note that an article in a
   recent issue of wired magazine about microsoft's xbox manufacturing
   partner, flextronics, noted that at that time the assembly line was
   busy churning out debug units for software developers. in fact, at
   gamepro recently an entire shipload of xbox debug units showed up at
   the doorsteps one day unannounced... even though the microsoft road
   crew was due in the next day with their games-loaded xboxes!
   first-party software has been flowing into the editorial bullpen
   regularly but also unannounced and with nary a cover letter. who knows
   who's sending this stuff? who cares? we just hope they keep sending
   it. in fact, now there are several copies each of outstanding games
   like halo and dead or alive iii for the editorial crew to get to know
   and love. as far as coverage for xbox software goes, the game is on!
   sometimes you have to wonder if at microsoft's xbox hq the left hand
   is aware of what the right hand is doing, but it's all good so far and
   two hands are better than none. sony has been oddly quiet about this
   upcoming holiday season. their biggest first party release will be the
   relatively unknown jak and daxter: the precursor legacy, which has the
   fact that it is the latest naughty dog creation going for it. they
   seem to be relying on third party hits-to-be like tony hawk's pro
   skater 3 and metal gear solid 2 and the sheer depth of their overall
   game library to carry them through the holidays... but that ain't bad
   at all. of course, everyone and their mothers are wondering if sony's
   actually going to lower the pricetag on the playstation 2 (even
   though, for the record, sony's categorically stated that no price
   reduction is planned for this holiday season). that could potentially
   stick it to nintendo and microsoft, especially among first-time games
   machine customers and gamers who've waited until now to purchase a
   next generation system, by making the ps2 an instant bargain. current
   ps2 can afford to wait out the storm and pick up a second game system
   any time next year, they should all be too busy playing the
   aforementioned tony hawk 3, metal gear solid 2, and jak and daxter and
   the upcoming final fantasy x to worry about it. who knows, prices
   could be better, too. buzz predicts: the big winner this holiday
   season will be sony. everyone knows you lose money selling hardware
   and make money selling software -- just ask sega. this is a no
   brainer: sony's got a commanding headstart on their installed base
   after a year's worth of hawking playstation2s to gamers. they're ready
   to rake in royalties from software sales. nintendo and microsoft have
   a lot of money-losing to do to catch up. but until the holidays arrive
   here are a few words of wisdom: nba 2k2 and tennis 2k2 are great
   dreamcast sports games. seeing as most titles are going to be across
   all platforms, it comes down to exclusives and this is an area where
   nintendo will win in the long run. still, with so many last minute
   announcements and secret deals between developers it's hard to say who
   will have the best line up next christmas. there's no doubt the ps2
   wins for this holiday... if you include january. final fantasy x is
   huge and is going to sell systems like nothing before, even gran
   turismo 3. nintendo and microsoft have nothing close that can compete
   with it and so far square has not hinted that the core franchise (not
   counting ff xi) will go to any other system. drifter's 2001 prediction:
   the ps2 will sell in huge quantities after people have bought up the
   small allocations of gamecube and xbox. metal gear solid 2, devil may
   cry, gran turismo 3, grand theft auto 3, red faction, silent hill2,
   ico and many more make for a wealth of gaming. drifter's 2002
   prediction:
   gamecube keeps selling through the summer while xbox and ps2 start to
   slow. nintendo solidifies the number 2 slot and the software support
   ramps up big time. the wallet-friendly price and lack of distracting
   internet add-ons keeps focus on what nintendo does best and consumers
   get a clear message. gamecube hits $150 - $100 late 2002 or early 2003
   signaling the victory march to number one. it could happen... sort of.
   get a job, then get 'em