CNN.com - Showbuzz - November  1, 2001
los angeles, california (ap) -- the fiercely contested election for
   president of the screen actors guild may have hit a snag. nearly
   24,000 ballots sent to members of the screen actors guild in new york
   failed to include a signature line, which could allow their validity
   to be challenged, variety reported wednesday. the other 74,000
   envelopes sent around the country include a line that states: "voter:
   print and sign your name on the back of this envelope." guild
   officials downplayed the effect of the signature-line flaw, saying in
   a written statement that each envelope already is affixed with a
   printed member identity label that verifies its legitimacy. the
   front-runners in the bid to represent hollywood actors are melissa
   gilbert, best known as frontier girl laura ingalls from "little house
   on the prairie," and valerie harper, the wisecracking star of "rhoda."
   two other candidates, angeltompkins and eugene boggs, also are seeking
   the presidency. none has raised serious objections yet about the
   ballot envelopes. the election comes at a time of tension and
   discordancy within the guild, following a lengthy commercial actors'
   strike and a barely averted walkout by movie and tv actors under
   one-term sag president william daniels. ballots were due wednesday,
   and results of the election are expected to be announced by november
   5, the guild said. los angeles, california (ap) -- heirs of "gone with
   the wind" movie producer david o. selznick have filed a lawsuit
   against turner entertainment co., seeking up to $10 million in profits
   from the 1939 film. the lawsuit filed tuesday in superior court
   alleges turner concealed the film's true profit and withheld a fair
   share from the heirs, who own a 6.7 percent interest in the film,
   interest inherited from selznick's brother, myron. a spokesperson from
   turner entertainment's parent company, turner broadcasting system
   inc., refused comment, saying the lawsuit is pending. turner acquired
   the rights to the late producer's movie after a 1986 merger with mgm,
   according to the lawsuit. the action is the latest in a series of
   financial battles over the oscar-winning film. a similar dispute was
   settled in 1997. another dispute was settled in 1986 after myron
   selznick's daughter accused mgm, who owned the film rights at the
   time, of improper accounting. as part of the 1997 agreement, the
   lawsuit said this current dispute must be settled in arbitration. san
   francisco, california (ap) -- george lucas' production company has
   filed a federal lawsuit against the makers of a pornographic movie,
   alleging that it's too similar to the 1977 epic "star wars." lucasfilm
   ltd. has sued media market group ltd., the new york producers of "star
   ballz," for copyright and trademark infringement, saying consumers
   could be confused into thinking that lucasfilm sponsored or produced
   the x-rated movie that makes a naked mockery of the "star wars" story
   line. this confusion could result in a loss of sales for lucasfilm,
   according to the lawsuit, filed last friday. the lawsuit also argues
   that media market group's pornographic film harms lucasfilm's
   reputation. linda wildblood, a partner at media market group, said
   wednesday that her company's movie is an animation parody. "just like
   'scary movie' is a spoof of horror movies, 'star ballz' parodies many
   different movies and themes," she said. "no one in their right mind
   could look at it and say this is 'star wars."'