CNN.com - DVD reviews: 'Shrek' and 'The Animal' - October 30, 2001
(cnn) -- from the barnyard to cyberspace to the magical kingdom of shrek,
   there's plenty of new discs to try in your machine this week. most
   videos debut on tuesday, but this friday marks the release of "shrek"
   by dreamworks home entertainment. hmm ... is it just a coincidence
   that arch-rival disney is releasing "monsters inc." in theaters that
   day? "shrek," by the way, is the highest grossing film in the united
   states this year. we'll also check on two other films from earlier
   this year, "swordfish" and "the animal." i promise no fairy tale
   endings. releases friday, november 2 there's absolutely no doubt this
   will be one of the highest grossing dvds of the year, rivaling this
   month's release of "star wars: episode one -- the phantom menace." in
   a year of so-so films, "shrek" stands out as one of the more
   pleasurable highlights. and, the dvd enhances the experience. when
   smashmouth sings "i'm a believer" at the end of this fractured fairy
   tale, the audience feels like singing along. well, now you can: a cute
   little extension to the movie is included on both discs. more than 150
   shrek characters show up to sing a variety of popular tunes. it's an
   exciting little piece of animation that kids will play over and over
   again. you can access this extended ending by watching the film
   (through the credits) or by using the special features menu. is the
   animation department at disney nervous? they should be. "shrek's"
   subversive sense of humor and it's first-class animation make it an
   absolute joy to watch time after time. dvd extras: besides the
   extended ending mentioned above, there's 11 hours of entertainment for
   kids of all ages. the interactive menu is a hoot! the characters from
   "shrek" come alive to take you to your destination. the menus were
   created by the film's directors. other highlights include "shrek's
   revoice studio" and the character interviews with shrek, fiona, lord
   farquaad and donkey. here's a tip: if the kids wear on your patience
   by repeatedly watching "shrek," have them listen to the french or
   spanish dubs. they may actually start to learn a new language, since
   they likely know the "shrek" dialogue by heart. rating: 10 movie
   review you don't need a password to access this cyber-thriller
   starring john travolta. the potentially confusing story makes a lot
   more sense the second time around, and you gain a greater appreciation
   of the opening ten minutes (a nifty little monologue about hollywood
   by travolta's character). travolta stars as a rogue agent, who wants
   to steal from a government slush fund. he hires uber-hacker hugh
   jackman, offering jackman 10 million greenbacks to come up with a
   computer worm that will break the bank. this, of course, is the film
   where co-star halle berry bares her breasts. there was such a
   controversy at the time over how much additional compensation she
   received for her nude scene, that i was hoping the director, in his
   dvd commentary, would put the rumors to rest. no such luck. dvd
   extras: there aren't many. a couple of documentaries and three
   alternate endings. i would like to have seen the violence in the film
   discussed as it relates to the terrorist attacks of september 11th.
   it's funny, but some of the statements made by travolta's character
   sound a lot like some of the statements made by officials about
   "operation enduring freedom." travolta's character is going after
   terrorists and the people who, or countries which, harbor terrorists.
   it got a little spooky listening to his character in light of the
   tragic events that happened a few months after the film's initial
   release. rating: 6 movie review okay, i admit it. i'm a closet "deuce
   bigalow" fan. i think rob schneider is frequently more funny than not.
   and, you will get some chuckles out of his latest comedy. schneider's
   character, marvin mange, gets into a terrible automobile accident. he
   needs multiple transplants to survive, so this crazy doctor who finds
   him improvises with animal parts. of course, after making his
   recovery, mange starts to exhibit some very unusual behavior. john c
   mcginley is funny as a steroid-crazed police sergeant. and, colleen
   haskell (from tv's "survivor") is just so darned cute, you can't help
   but like her. dvd extras: the rob schneider commentary is funny. he
   really is a very talented comedian. check out the deleted scenes and a
   couple of moderately interesting documentaries. rating: 5 "cats
   ultimate edition" (universal studios home video)
   "andrew lloyd webber's royal hall celebration" (universal studios home
   video)
   "queen: we will rock you" (pioneer entertainment)
   "disney/pixar 3-pack...toy story, a bug's life and toy story 2" (buena
   vista home entertainment)
   "(cirque du soleil) a baroque odyssey" (columbia tristar home
   entertainment)
   "(cirque du soleil) saltimbanco" (columbia tristar home entertainment)
   "(cirque du soleil) nouvelle experience" (columbia tristar home
   entertainment)
   "(cirque du soleil) cirque reinvente" (columbia tristar home
   entertainment)
   "(cirque du soleil) la magie continue" (columbia tristar home
   entertainment) "tell me a story, miffy!" (pioneer entertainment)
   "miffy at school" (pioneer entertainment)
   "rolie polie olie: a jingle jangle holiday" (walt disney home video)
   "spot's magical christmas" (walt disney home video)
   "the twelve days of christmas sing along songs" (walt disney home
   video)
   "see no evil, hear no evil" (columbia tristar home entertainment)
   "midway" (universal studios home video)
   "macarthur" (universal studios home video)