CNN.com - Showbuzz - October 25, 2001
los angeles (ap) -- tom hanks is joining such past hollywood everymen as
   james stewart and jack lemmon as a recipient of the american film
   institute's life achievement award. hanks will be honored with the
   30th annual award in a tribute on june 12 at hollywood's kodak
   theatre, the new home of the oscar ceremony. usa network will air the
   tribute june 23. hanks has played a string of lovable characters in
   such films as "splash," "sleepless in seattle," "big" and "you've got
   mail." a double oscar winner for "philadelphia" and "forrest gump,"
   hanks has been nominated three other times, most recently for last
   year's "cast away." hanks also provided the voice of sheriff woody in
   the "toy story" movies, and his other credits include "saving private
   ryan," "apollo 13" and "the green mile." he wrote, directed and
   co-starred in "that thing you do!" hanks and "saving private ryan"
   director steven spielberg are executive producers on the hbo
   miniseries "band of brothers." stewart received the afi life
   achievement honor in 1980, and lemmon was the recipient in 1988.
   london (ap) -- kenneth branagh will swap shakespeare for harry potter
   when he takes the role of flamboyant witchcraft professor gilderoy
   lockhart in the next potter film. the 40-year-old actor-director, best
   known for bringing shakespeare to new film audiences, will play the
   publicity-hungry teacher at hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry
   in "harry potter and the chamber of secrets," which is to begin
   filming in december, spokeswoman sara keene said thursday. he will
   join the existing teaching staff, whose first adventures with their
   magical students are depicted in "harry potter and the sorcerer's
   stone," which opens in the united states on november 16. los angeles
   (ap) -- "the phantom menace" has become a record force in dvd sales.
   the dvd of "star wars: episode i -- the phantom menace" set a new
   sales record in its first week, with customers buying an estimated 2.2
   million copies. that broke the previous record of 2 million set just
   two weeks ago by "the mummy returns." distributor 20th century fox
   would not disclose exact sales figures. but the studio said wednesday
   that 65 percent of its initial shipment in north america had been
   bought in the first week. the trade publication video business
   reported that fox's initial shipment of "phantom menace" dvds totaled
   3.3 million, which would put first-week sales around 2.2 million. the
   two-disc set released october 16 includes audio commentary by "star
   wars" creator george lucas and collaborators, seven newly finished
   deleted scenes, a one-hour behind-the-scenes documentary and other
   bonus features. waveland, mississippi (ap) -- delta burke is selling
   several pieces of furniture -- some from her tv and movie sets and
   others from her homes. pink furniture from the dressing room of the
   hit sitcom "designing women" and a vanity bench from the tv movie "a
   promise to caroline" are among 35 items up for bid at sunday's
   auction. the auction also will include a rosewood french 1840s piano,
   an ornate western state chair used by burke's husband, gerald mcraney,
   and a wooden rocker from the couple's pasadena, california, home. "she
   has a lot of things," said auctioneer jennings gilmore. "because they
   have been owned and used by delta burke, they should go a little
   higher than normal." burke picked out items she's willing to let her
   husband sell, gilmore said. mcraney, who starred in television's
   "major dad," is a native of mississippi. the couple owns a 500-acre
   farm in pearl river county.