CNN.com - Journey to Afghanistan - October 23, 2001
jabal-us-siraj, northern afghanistan (cnn) -- cameraman adil bradlow has
   been travelling with cnn correspondent matthew chance in northern
   alliance-controlled afghanistan since late september, when they
   entered the country from dushanbe, tajikistan. bradlow kept a diary of
   events, including the first night of coalition airstrikes on
   afghanistan. here is his report: friday, september 28: even at 5:30 in
   the morning after an eight-hour flight, it was apparent that dushanbe
   had a certain charm. wide, tree-lined boulevards and stylish
   architecture -- a blend of islamic, soviet and what i'm guessing is a
   classic turn-of-the-century style -- made for a most agreeable
   arrival. by midday we were back in the air, en route to the panjshir
   valley in northern afghanistan for a front-row view of the coming war.
   when we touched down in jabal-us-siraj, our new home, the mujahedeen
   we met seemed relaxed, easygoing and confident. saturday, september
   29: from our live-shot position -- atop an outhouse in our compound --
   the view was surreal: traditional mud-covered houses blended into the
   parched landscape, set off by a crisp blue sky. jabal-us-siraj is at
   the mouth of the panjshir. across the plains, some 20 km from our
   position, the taliban were dug in, guarding the heights overlooking
   kabul. we'd been told by our sources of an apparent troop build-up on
   both sides of the front, and my first assignment was to try to verify
   this. accompanied by a member of the northern alliance's security
   department and our afghan translator jabbal -- assigned to us by the
   alliance's ministry of foreign affairs -- and with our driver aziz at
   the wheel, we headed south to charikar. charikar is a bustling market
   town on the edge of the front line. despite being within range of
   taliban guns, life seemed normal here. traders plied their wares in
   the market, and while guns were in evidence -- as they apparently
   always are -- there was no sense of an impending offensive. we stopped
   at the local security office and picked up a four-man armed escort,
   who did a sterling job keeping the scores of interested children at
   bay. after strolling through the market, we headed into the side
   alleys and ended up at a mujahedeen rest area at the rear of the front
   line. situated behind a 20-foot-high wall, the place was almost
   deserted. most of the fighters had been called up to the front a few
   days ago, but a couple of guys were hanging out in a well-tended
   garden, making the most of their down time. one thing struck me about
   the afghans i met: not only were they unfazed by the camera, they were
   warm and friendly -- an interesting contrast to the balkans, where
   just about everyone i met seemed grumpy. for people who've been
   subjected to more than 20 years of war and live in one of the world's
   poorest countries, they were remarkably chipper. but war has been
   going on for so long here that it has filtered down into almost every
   part of people's daily lives. scores of burned-out, rusted monuments
   to soviet adventurism litter the landscape, most dating back to the
   last panjshir offensive in 1988. wrecked tanks have been incorporated
   into farm walls and bridges, tank tracks into speed humps, and empty
   shell casings into chimney pots. thursday, october 4: we head for the
   front line at rabot -- 25 km from kabul and about 1 km from the
   taliban -- and get there at 5 p.m. after picking up an armed escort
   and stopping by the area commander's headquarters. everything here
   happens in a different time frame, and each stop meant a compulsory
   cup of chai tea and a chat. while much of the fighting between the
   taliban and northern alliance was happening several hundred kilometres
   to the west, the two sides were also banging away at each other at
   rabot. as the local commander, mohammed gani, explained: "ask the
   question and you will receive the answer" -- which i took to mean,
   "fire at me and i'll fire at you." it seemed that gani's troops were
   in a question-asking mood; there seemed to be much more fire going out
   than coming in. it was impressive, and our commander took delight in
   giving us a tour of his front line positions. at one point he
   encouraged me to join a machine-gun crew up in their firing position,
   but i gracefully declined. tracer rounds make spectacular pictures,
   but they also announce your position to all who may be watching --
   taliban included. by 7 p.m., we were back at gani's base and settling
   down to a fine meal of lamb curry, rice, nan and "most" -- a type of
   yoghurt eaten with the meal. before we turned in, i persuaded a jabbar
   to act as translator for a conversation with gani. i wanted his take
   on the terror attacks in the united states and asked if he'd seen it
   on tv and what he thought. he said he had indeed seen it, then
   shrugged and said he felt sorry for all the innocent people who had
   died. he said bad things happen in wars, and now war had come to
   america. i guess i shouldn't have been surprised by his non-plussed
   reaction; anyone who's been fighting for as long as he has -- some
   20-odd years -- has seen it all. on the war itself, he said it was
   every afghan's duty to fight any foreign occupation of their homeland,
   and that the taliban were yet another in a series of foreign invaders.
   i could have seen the logic of his argument had he not mentioned that
   he'd fought for the soviets during their occupation. saturday october
   6: matt chance and i went into jabal-us-siraj to report on the gun
   shops here. an entire section of the central market is devoted to
   servicing and repairing weapons, from kalashnikov rifles to t-62
   tanks. while chatting to various proprietors, we came across qaasim,
   all of 12 years old and already a technician with six years experience
   under his belt. it's amazing how much of the local economy is geared
   towards war. outfitters supply various types of camouflage and
   matching ammo belts. leather merchants provide the latest in underarm
   holsters, and for just $100 you can buy an ak-47 -- a must-have for
   every young man in town, as jabbar informed me. so pervasive is the
   war, and so much is it part of their consciousness, that for many
   afghans it is impossible to conceive of any other reality. indeed
   nearly two generations have known no other reality. for instance,
   young qaasim's driving ambition is to progress from small arms to
   heavy weapons like tanks and field artillery. "the money is better,"
   he says. sunday october 7: we set off again for the front after
   getting word that the coalition bombing would begin tonight. and so it
   came to pass, from our vantage point in the bagram airport tower, that
   we saw the first military action in the war on terror. it was not all
   that impressive. at around 9:15 p.m. we noticed a couple of flashes in
   the direction of kabul and small star-like bursts in the sky. the
   sound didn't carry, but i gathered from another crewmember who was up
   on the hills with a night scope that the taliban were putting on quite
   a show. an artillery display by the northern alliance earlier in the
   evening had been more impressive. under the direction of gen. babojan,
   troops aimed a concerted barrage at a stream of cars fleeing kabul; in
   the fading light, the vehicles' headlamps made for clear targets.
   using artillery and multiple rocket launchers, babojan's forces banged
   away at taliban positions. the odd round of return fire did little to
   lessen his zeal. clearly unimpressed by what he could see of the
   coalition strikes, babojan went to bed at 11 p.m., leaving just
   jabbar, myself and a small detail at the control tower. by the time
   the second wave of airstrikes had begun, a bitter north wind made life
   very uncomfortable, and we abandoned the exposed tower for quarters
   below. but we balked at the idea of sleeping with the fleas, so we
   returned to the tower, wrapped ourselves in bulletproof vests and
   tried to sleep. it was one of those nights you thought was never going
   to end. even seeing a third wave of airstrikes at around 4 a.m. did
   little to raise our morale. by 9 a.m. we packed up and headed back to
   jabal-us-siraj, where we spent much of the day catching up on sleep
   and keeping warm.