CNN.com - Bill Press: No blank check - September 25, 2001
washington (tribune media services) -- president bush has pledged to do
   "whatever it takes" to retaliate for last week's terrorist attacks
   against the united states. and most members of congress, if not most
   americans, seem ready to hand over unlimited wartime powers. count me
   out. as horrific as those mass murders were, they are no excuse for
   giving any president a blank check in military action, military
   spending, domestic security or domestic spending. in fact, there is no
   time when americans must be more on guard to safeguard both our basic
   freedoms and strict guidelines on which actions are justified and
   which are not. of course, a military response to the outrages of
   september 11 is in order. these were acts of war. retaliatory attacks
   are justified. but, even here, there should be no blank check. targets
   must be carefully identified as connected to the world trade center
   and pentagon massacres. and steps must be taken to minimize the loss
   of innocent civilian lives. as king abdullah of jordan advised the new
   york times's thomas friedman: "make sure you respond in a way that
   punishes the real perpetrators, that brings justice, not revenge,
   because otherwise you will be going against your own ideals, and that
   is what the terrorists want most." we must also be careful not to rush
   into a military operation we can't win and can't get out of. that
   includes a ground war in afghanistan. we can't bomb them into the
   stone age, as some suggest. they're already living in the stone age.
   and if russia couldn't win there on the ground, at the height of its
   military prowess, neither can we. it's another vietnam in the making.
   no blank check for an invasion of afghanistan. while the president is
   correct in stating that terrorists themselves are not the only targets
   -- we should also go after those countries which support and harbor
   terrorist organizations -- here, too, there are limits. as secretary
   of state colin powell suggests, diplomatic and economic pressures are
   the most effective and most appropriate actions. it would be absurd,
   as some have suggested, to embark on a campaign to overthrow the
   governments of every country in which some terrorist organization is
   located, a list that would include: iran, iraq, egypt, syria, lebanon,
   sudan, libya and pakistan, in addition to afghanistan. and maybe saudi
   arabia. no blank check for starting world war iii: the united states
   vs. the arab world. and no blank check for assassinating foreign
   leaders, either. once we have solid evidence linking osama bin laden
   to the pentagon and wtc, he's fair game. so are other terrorist
   leaders known to be associated with him. but lifting the ban against
   assassination is nothing but an invitation for the united states to
   revert to the immorality of unleashing the cia to attempt to kill or
   overthrow heads of state -- guatemala's jacobo arbenz, chile's
   salvador allende, cuba's fidel castro -- just because we didn't like
   their brand of politics. the same brakes must be applied to
   non-military issues as well. some republicans in congress have already
   cited terrorism as justification for a new tax cut, drilling for oil
   in the arctic national wildlife refuge and total funding for missile
   defense. in other words, give george bush a blank check for everything
   he had tried to get through congress, but couldn't. no way. those were
   bad ideas before last week's attacks. they still are. shame on them
   for trying to exploit the deaths of thousands of americans to justify
   their own failed policies. destroying the environment will not stop
   osama bin laden. nor will giving the richest americans another tax
   cut. and will someone please explain how star wars would have
   prevented commercial airliners from crashing into the world trade
   center towers or the pentagon? some people can't accept facts. the
   tragic events of september 11 argue for junking missile defense, not
   funding it. it would provide no protection against a briefcase, ryder
   truck or suicide bomber. so, no matter how angry we are, it is still
   important to keep our perspective. there are still legitimate
   differences on the issues, and no one point of view is more patriotic
   than another. even in wartime, there are limits to what a president
   can and should do. yes, this is a time for us to pull together. but
   this is no time to lose sight of what's right and what's wrong. as
   americans, we stand united in saluting the flag. but we do not have to
   salute everything the president says or wants.