CNN.com - showbuzz - August 30, 2001
los angeles, california -- mark hamill says he wasn't making fun of his
   "star wars" character luke skywalker when he appeared in the new kevin
   smith film, "jay and silent bob strike back." despite the use of light
   sabers and other props, hamill says the appearance he makes in the
   kevin smith comedy references something else. "he's not that
   character. he's a pompous actor who's on like a "batman"-like tv show,
   and that's the way i approached it," hamill tells the associated
   press. hamill, 49, played luke skywalker in george lucas' "star wars"
   in 1977. he also appeared in two sequels, 1980's "the empire strikes
   back" and 1983's "return of the jedi." "jay and silent bob strike
   back," co-starring ben affleck, shannon elizabeth, and jason lee,
   grossed $11 million in its debut weekend. new york -- michael jackson
   says he's "deeply moved" after opening nasdaq on thursday. the
   self-proclaimed king of pop pushed the button to open trading on the
   stock exchange. nasdaq officials also gave him a shirley temple poster
   and a cake to celebrate his 43rd birthday, which was yesterday, the
   associated press reports. jackson is currently promoting the release
   of his new album "invincible," which hits stores next month. the first
   single from the album, "you rock my world," reportedly features a
   video starring marlon brando, as well as several other celebrities.
   jackson is readying for his tribute concert at madison square garden
   in new york on september 7. nasdaq will host a dinner in jackson's
   honor at tavern on the green following the show. bangor, maine -- in
   the end, it was nothing a $750,000 donation couldn't fix. that's how
   much stephen king's insurance company reportedly paid to the hospital
   that cared for him after a van hit him two years ago. this, after king
   sued onebeacon insurance for $10 million in february, claiming it
   failed to provide full coverage for injuries he suffered in the
   accident. the settlement was executed on july 27, the portland press
   herald reported thursday. king, the highly popular horror writer of
   such classics as "the shining," "misery," and "carrie," suffered a
   broken leg and hip, a punctured lung, broken ribs and other injuries
   after being struck by a van driven by bryan smith of fryeburg in june
   1999. king has undergone five surgeries since then. tony payne, vice
   president of marketing for onebeacon, said the donation to the
   regional hospital was a compromise. "(the lawsuit) wasn't likely to be
   easily resolved without long and expensive litigation," payne said.
   "so we collaborated and said, 'how can some good come out of this that
   can impart community good?' " london, england -- jerry hall is going
   back to college to earn an arts degree at britain's open university,
   and she'll be studying some familiar subjects. "i will be studying
   andy warhol and i think we will also be learning about the rolling
   stones, which is something i think i've got a good head start at,"
   said hall, whose 20-year relationship with stones' lead singer mick
   jagger produced four children. hall, 45, says she waited to chase the
   degree until after her youngest child started nursery school. "it's
   something i've always wanted to do, it's just for me," said hall, who
   first gained fame as a model.