CNN.com - Audiences veer into 'Changing Lanes' - April 15, 2002
los angeles, california (ap) -- ben affleck and samuel l. jackson's
   "changing lanes" drew heavy traffic at theaters this weekend. the
   drama about two men bent on revenge after a fender-bender debuted in
   the no. 1 spot with $17.6 million. "panic room," the top film for the
   last two weekends, slipped to second place with $11.3 million, while
   cameron diaz's romantic comedy "the sweetest thing" opened at no. 3
   with $10 million, according to studio estimates sunday. the horror
   flick "frailty," starring matthew mcconaughey and bill paxton,
   premiered with $4.2 million, tying for eighth place with "national
   lampoon's van wilder." in narrower release, the satiric comedy "human
   nature" opened weakly with $300,000, averaging a meager $1,339 in 224
   theaters. the film stars patricia arquette and tim robbins and was
   written by charlie kaufman ("being john malkovich"). "changing lanes"
   averaged $6,716 in 2,613 theaters, compared with $3,745 in 2,670
   cinemas for "the sweetest thing" and $2,806 in 1,497 locations for
   "frailty." the overall box office continued a string of up weekends.
   the top 12 films grossed $84.1 million, an 11.5 percent increase from
   the same weekend a year ago. so far this year, hollywood has posted
   domestic revenues of about $2.25 billion, 18 percent ahead of last
   year's pace, when the industry set a year-long record of $8.4 billion,
   said paul dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker exhibitor
   relations. healthy spring business could boost hollywood's busy summer
   season, which gets an early start next weekend with the debut of "the
   scorpion king," a spinoff of "the mummy" franchise starring pro
   wrestler the rock. "the fact that people are in theaters in pretty big
   numbers in march and april bodes well for summer's chances,"
   dergarabedian said. "the summer onslaught's right around the corner,
   and lots of movie-goers are being exposed to all the trailers for the
   big summer films." "changing lanes" benefited from generally positive
   reviews, affleck's allure to women and jackson's appeal to black
   audiences, said wayne lewellen, head of distribution for paramount,
   which released the film. the audience was split 50-50 between men and
   women, and about 70 percent was older than 25, he said. that
   demographic breakdown should help "changing lanes" hold up against
   "the scorpion king," which is expected to appeal largely to teen-age
   boys and young males, lewellen said. "that movie should have a younger
   audience than ours," lewellen said. "the sweetest thing" drew mainly
   17- to 25-year-olds and a largely female audience, said jeff blake,
   president of worldwide marketing and distribution for sony, which
   released the movie. with the eye-candy appeal of diaz and co-stars
   christina applegate and selma blair, "young males liked it just as
   much for obvious reasons," blake said. "as one of the few comedies out
   there right now, it gives us a good chance to hold well." the reissue
   of "e.t. the extra-terrestrial" took in $1.5 million, pushing its
   four-week gross to $32.9 million. the movie's 20-year total climbed to
   $432.7 million, edging past "star wars: episode i -- the phantom
   menace" for no. 3 on the all-time domestic box-office chart. estimated
   ticket sales for friday through sunday at north american theaters,
   according to exhibitor relations co. inc. final figures will be
   released monday.