CNN.com - Preview: Forceful action in 'Star Wars Galaxies' - August 15, 2001
(idg) -- why be just another "chaotic neutral magician" when you can
   live life as a dark freakin' jedi? that's the question lucasarts and
   sony online are asking with "star war galaxies," their ambitious joint
   foray into the crowded realm of massively multiplayer online
   role-playing games (mmorpg). with the whole "star wars" universe at
   their disposal, they're hoping it's the only rpg you'll ever need.
   "galaxies" will enable you to choose one of eight "star wars" races,
   from wookiee to mon calamari, then unleash you into the star wars
   universe during the galactic civil war, just after the destruction of
   the first death star. from there, you decide whether you want to
   support the rebellion as an interstellar smuggler or start a
   quilt-making club for right-handed imperial nerf-herders on tatooine.
   "galaxies" will let you develop your character in any way you wish by
   assigning points to the skill branches of combat, craftsmanship, and
   politics. "galaxies" is being developed by verant interactive -- the
   same team responsible for everquest -- but it's doing its best to make
   sure this isn't just, "eq: the wookiee years." veterans of both
   "ultima online" and "eq" are on the "galaxies" team, hopefully
   ensuring that the mistakes of the past won't be repeated. one of the
   "galaxies" dev team's primary goals is to eliminate the tedium of the
   mmorpg lifestyle, including such "eq" nightmares as corpse recovery
   and painfully slow stat recovery. player vs. player combat -- a
   notorious sore spot, especially in "ultima online" -- will be handled
   with extreme care, focusing on story-driven faction conflicts, with a
   strict penalty system for those who dare break the laws of the land.
   player land ownership will be included, too, but verant wants to
   ensure naboo doesn't become the suburban wasteland that uo's britannia
   eventually became. while "star wars galaxies" is still far, far away
   (lucasarts anticipates a fall 2002 release), plans are already
   underway for much, much more, including an expansion pack focusing on
   space travel and starship combat. information flows freely and
   regularly at the official "galaxies" web site, so check it out . . .
   and prepare to watch your free-time go the way of alderaan.