CNN.com - Nintendo unveils Gamecube launch plans - August 24, 2001
(idg) -- with less than a month to go before its new game console hits
   shelves in japan, nintendo co. ltd. unveiled thursday more details
   about the gamecube console, its launch plans and the software that
   will be available to consumers buying the new system.the gamecube will
   ship in japan september 14, followed in the u.s. november 14, and in
   europe in early 2002, said nintendo officials at a tokyo news
   conference. the company holds out big hopes for the success of the
   console, said atsushi asada, executive vice president. "the console
   gaming market is still far from healthy," he said. the increasing
   sales of the last few years have been led by jumps in hardware sales
   and not software, which is decreasing. "we hope the gamecube can break
   this cycle," he said before describing his company's new console as a
   "masterpiece of video game console design." at launch, nintendo is
   planning to have 500,000 units available for domestic customers and
   announced today that it has increased the initial shipment for the
   u.s. market to 700,000. by the end of the year, nintendo hopes to have
   shipped 1.4 million consoles in japan and 1.1 million consoles in the
   u.s. and for this to increase to a total of 4 million for both markets
   combined by the end of march 2002.helping sales by the end of the year
   will be a selection of consoles available in colors other than the
   violet console available at launch. nintendo plans to offer orange and
   black consoles in japan in november 2001, complete with matching
   controllers, and also to put on sale a controller in a color the
   company calls violet and clear.on the software side, three games will
   be available at launch in japan: "luigi's mansion" and "wave race blue
   storm" from nintendo and "super monkey ball" from sega corp. by the
   end of the year, these will be joined by "pikmin," "super smash
   brothers dx," "animal forest plus," "eternal darkness," "fifa 2002
   road to world cup," "ssx tricky," "star wars rogue leader: rogue
   squadron ii" and "universal studios japan." the japanese games will
   cost 6,800 yen (us $57). in the u.s., five of these titles will be
   available at launch, priced at $49.95: "luigi's mansion," "wave race
   blue storm," "pikmin," "super smash brothers dx" and "eternal
   darkness." an additional 12 titles are expected to be available by the
   end of the year: "all star baseball 2002," "dave mirra freestyle bmx
   2," "extreme g3," "nfl quarterback club 2002," "crazy taxi," "fifa
   soccer 2002," "madden nfl 2002," "ssx tricky," "star wars rogue
   leader: rogue squadron ii," "nfl blitz," "nhl hitz" and "super monkey
   ball." the company also gave a short preview of two of the most
   awaited gamecube games, "mario sunshine" and "legend of zelda." not
   much was revealed during the video preview or by nintendo's lead game
   creator shigeru miyamoto at a press conference afterward, although he
   did say the games will be available in the middle and end,
   respectively, of next year.asada also spoke of the need to change game
   software to give it a wider appeal. average consumers are finding
   console games to be too long and complex, while serious gamers are no
   longer impressed by new games that simply boast better graphics, he
   said. underlining the importance with which he holds software, he
   said, "no matter how good the hardware, it is no good if there is no
   interesting software." the gamecube is based on an ibm corp. powerpc
   "gekko" running at 485mhz, with graphics and i/o chips from ati
   technologies inc. and an nec corp. flipper system lsi (large scale
   integrated circuit). it has 40m bytes of memory and an optical drive
   for proprietary 8cm discs developed by japan's matsushita electric
   industrial co. ltd., better known by its panasonic brand name, which
   have a capacity of 1.5g bytes.the console is the first of two major
   home gaming consoles expected to launch this year and compete with
   sony computer entertainment inc.'s playstation 2 console, which first
   went on sale in japan in march 2000. the second new console, microsoft
   corp.'s xbox, is due for launch later this year.nintendo has already
   signaled its intention to compete with the playstation 2 by announcing
   a 25,000 yen price tag for the japan market and $200 price tag for the
   u.s. the playstation 2 is considerably more expensive at 35,000 yen,
   even after a recent price