CNN.com - Lucas announces new 'Star Wars' title - August  7, 2001
(cnn) -- talk about good timing. on the same day that media outlets
   reported that a group of researchers planned to clone up to 200
   humans, filmmaker george lucas revealed the title of his upcoming
   fifth film in the highly popular "star wars" series: "star wars:
   episode ii -- attack of the clones." the news was announced on
   lucasfilm's official "star wars" web site on monday. the name joins
   chapter titles for the four previous films: "a new hope" (1977), "the
   empire strikes back" (1980), "return of the jedi" (1983), and "the
   phantom menace" (1999). the new title is a reference to a favorite
   throwaway line in the 1977 "star wars," when luke skywalker is told
   that obi-wan kenobi fought with skywalker's father in "the clone
   wars." the first three episodes of "star wars" follow a straight
   timeline; "phantom menace," released in 2000, and "attack of the
   clones" are prequels to that series. while the title was just
   revealed, the movie is already in post-production, set for a may 2002
   release. "episode iii" is scheduled to bow in 2005. "attack of the
   clones" picks up 10 years after the action in "the phantom menace." it
   follows the adventures of young anakin skywalker, luke's father, who
   evolves into the evil darth vader of the later films. the film stars
   ewan mcgregor, natalie portman, hayden christensen, and samuel l.
   jackson. slowly rolling out details of each "star wars" installment --
   and guessing at plotlines -- has become a ritual for fans of the
   blockbuster. giving each installment a chapter title "hearkens back to
   the sense of pure fun, imagination and excitement that characterized
   the classic movie serials and pulp space fantasy adventures that
   inspired the 'star wars' saga," lucasfilms said in its web
   announcement. the "star wars" saga is one of the most financially
   successful in hollywood history. the four movies in the series have
   grossed well over $1 billion combined.