CNN.com - 'Planet of the Apes' goes digital - August 15, 2001
(idg) -- planet of the apes will make a second debut in select movie
   theaters this weekend. only this time, the hideous ape makeup on tim
   roth, helena bonham carter and pals will be that much clearer thanks
   to a digital version of the film that is now making its way to the 32
   screens worldwide that are equipped with digital projectors. the
   release marks the 32nd film that has been released in digital form.
   other major movies include miramax's spy kids, dreamworks' shrek,
   universal studios' jurassic park iii and twentieth century fox's star
   wars: episode i -- the phantom menace. fox is also the studio behind
   apes. the digital version hits theaters at a time when hollywood is
   growing increasingly aware of the potential for digital piracy. the
   latest films to surface as potential piracy victims include american
   pie 2 and apes. a new york times article stated that apes was
   available online, but a fox spokeswoman denied any knowledge of such
   copies. the american pie 2 threat turned out to be a hoax in the form
   of foreign, pornographic films labeled as the teen gross-out flick.
   says jeffrey godsick, executive vp of publicity and promotions at
   twentieth century fox, "with security precautions taken by all parties
   involved, we believe that will not be an issue" in this case. in most
   situations, the digital version of a film is released at the same time
   as its analog form. but conversion to digital happens only after a
   film is completed, and the $100 million apes' production closed just
   barely before the deadline, according to many reports. according to
   godsick, the digital version of the film is simply an added value for
   audiences. "it's a bit early too tell what level of awareness exists
   among all consumers. however, it is possible that true cinephiles will
   seek out this presentation." unfortunately, this is still not the holy
   grail. in a true digital-cinema scenario, a movie would be distributed
   digitally as well as shown in digital form. in this case, the movie
   was shipped in compact disc form by express mail to the 32 theaters.
   more digital projectors need to be installed before distribution
   channels can justify the expense of a large-scale system that would
   enable studios to ship movies to theaters with the click of a button.
   but it is encouraging for digital cinema proponents who are hopeful
   that more digital content will drive the demand for the development of
   digital cinema. as filmmakers such as george lucas continue to embrace
   digital technology in their moviemaking, many expect digital to begin
   taking the place of celluloid. ultimately, the process will save
   money, but currently, most studios are simply creating supplemental
   digital forms. for now, apes will simply try to increase its
   box-office take. since the film opened in theaters on july 27, it has
   garnered $123.75