CNN.com - Astronaut Jeff Williams and Miles O'Brien: Space talk on the spacewalk - August 16, 2001
jeff williams is a nasa astronaut. he was part of the third shuttle
   mission devoted to international space station construction. in that
   flight, williams logged over 236 hours in space, including 6 hours and
   44 minutes of eva (space walking). miles o'brien is space
   correspondent for cnn news group and is primetime co-anchor with
   andrea thompson of cnn headlinenews. cnn: greetings and good day to
   astronaut jeff williams and cnn's own space enthusiast miles o'brien.
   welcome to our chat audience, too! jeff williams: i'm happy to be here
   today to talk to you a little about eva (extra-vehicular activity) and
   space in general and answer your questions. miles o'brien: greetings,
   fellow space cadets!! we hope you've been enjoying watching the space
   walk on cnn all morning, and this is a good time to ask questions,
   because jeff has been there and done that! chat participant: how cold
   is it out there in space? williams: well, it can get close to 170-200
   degrees below zero fahrenheit, but in the space suit, you feel very
   comfortable. sometimes your hands can get cold, but we wear glove
   heaters if that occurs. chat participant: how long does the prep work
   for a space walk take? williams: it takes a couple of hours to prepare
   the equipment, get in the suits, and prepare to depressurize the
   airlock to open the hatch. chat participant: what are the detrimental
   effects on the human body in regards to long term living in space?
   williams: well, long term.... we have documented that there are
   several effects on the body. for example, as you might expect, muscles
   atrophy and become weaker, due to lack of use. also, the calcium
   density in the bones decreases. the other effect has to do with your
   vestibular system and your sense of balance, and you feel that when
   you come back to earth, primarily. the good news is that people
   recover over a relatively short period of time to their full capacity.
   chat participant: i just switched on and i noticed the spacewalk
   story. what is the primary goal of it? williams: today's space walk
   has two primary objectives. the first one was the installation of what
   we call the "early ammonia servicer." it will be used to service the
   iss ammonia system in the event of a leak. ammonia is used to cool the
   station's systems. ...much like freon in your home air conditioner.
   the second major objective that they're working on as we speak, is the
   installation of an experiment. the experiment is called the "materials
   iss experiment," and it will expose many materials to the vacuum of
   space over several months, so that we understand the effect of the
   space environment on those materials over a long term. o'brien: if you
   wanted to make an analogy to help people under misse, if you've ever
   noticed while driving along the highway, those places where they test
   various types of paint for the road markings. this is their way of
   testing some materials in some harsh conditions, and the winners get
   the contract. chat participant: what does the space station look like
   inside? williams: i was there when it was relatively small. it's much
   bigger now. it's basically a long corridor made up of several modules
   linked together. there are hatches between each module. when you go
   from the russian segment to the u.s. segment, the look and feel
   changes. for example, the color changes. it is tan in the russian
   segment, and mostly white in the u.s. segment. there is a cloth on the
   walls in the russian segment, and the u.s. segment has metal walls.
   there are many cables strung along the walls, and other equipment and
   supplies and cameras, etc. o'brien: it's sort of like being inside a
   giant tinker toy creation! lots of long tubes with connecting wheels,
   although i have yet to experience it first hand. that is to come!
   williams: cnn in space! chat participant: hi jeff and miles! how many
   walks will be done on this visit to the station? williams: there will
   be two space walks performed during sts-105. the second one will be
   conducted on saturday. cnn: how do astronauts train for spacewalking?
   o'brien: very carefully! williams: on average, you'll spend 10 hours
   in the swimming pool training, for every hour in space. during that
   time, we perfect the procedures, the tools, the sequence of events,
   and the details of the hardware that we are working with. we also work
   out the protocol and coordination with the rest of the crew inside the
   shuttle, as well as the flight controllers in mission control. all of
   this occurs over six months to a year prior to flight. chat
   participant: how do you walk in space? it must be hard to do, due to
   the weightlessness -- or is it easy? williams: in some respects it's
   hard, in some it's easy. walking is a misnomer, obviously. you're
   actually crawling with your hands. it's very easy to move around,
   because of the weightless environment in one sense. but it's difficult
   in another sense, because of the bulky suit and the pressurized gloves
   that you have to work your hands in. chat participant: we heard a lot
   about a "bullet hole" they found this morning. can you explain to us
   what they meant by that? williams: i was listening to the same thing
   as it was talked about. it sounds like it was what we call a
   micro-meteorite hit. it could have been a small particle from the
   debris of another space craft among the space junk in orbit. o'brien:
   jeff, given the potential there, should that give us some concern for
   space walkers in general? how big a risk is it -- a space walker being
   struck by a similar "bullet" if you will? williams: there is a
   definite risk of being hit by debris in space. nasa studies the
   probability of that risk, and we consider the probability low, but it
   is there. of course, when you're out there for a relatively short
   duration, the probability goes down even more. the suits are designed
   to withstand a small particle hit. that helps mitigate the risk as
   well. o'brien: i'm sure you'd feel it, though! williams: either you'd
   feel it, or not feel it! o'brien: [laughing] chat participant: what is
   the longest amount of time a human has spent in space continuously?
   williams: well, let's see.... there's a russian cosmonaut that spent
   jsut over a year in space. o'brien: four hundred something days. chat
   participant: since the space station is international, whose laws
   govern it when people are there? williams: we have international
   agreements among the partners of the iss as to how we operate the
   space station. there are no "laws" per se. o'brien: there are
   memorandas of understanding, which cover crew conduct and various
   inter-crew activities, to insure that everybody straightens up and
   flies right. :) in the strictest sense of the word! chat participant:
   jeff, after returning to earth from the iss, in what way has your life
   changed given the fact that in outerspace you were able to see our
   planet from a different perspective? williams: being in space and
   seeing the earth below was a very humbling experience. ...to see just
   how small and relatively insignificant we are, relative to god's
   creation. it was also very apparent to me that there was vitality or
   life in the earth, seeing the blues and greens and browns of the ocean
   and land forms and clouds, as well as the very thin atmosphere on the
   horizon, and the multiple colors that it displayed. o'brien: i'd be
   happy to wax eloquent, but i haven't been there! but i did find those
   stats... the longest single space flight occurred on mir (rip) from
   may 1994 to february 1995. valery polyakov spent 438 days on mir. just
   last week, he started walking. no, just kidding! he's doing fine! the
   endurance record for a woman was shannon lucid, from march through
   september of 1996. she spent 188 days on mir. chat participant: the
   international space station is approaching operational status which
   will free up nasa assets to pursue other things. what would you like
   to see nasa focus on in the near future? williams: that's a good
   question. sometimes we tend to forget that the iss is not the end, but
   a means to an end. it will enable us to understand many of the things
   it will take to go beyond earth orbit. our vision is to return to the
   moon, on hopefully a permanent basis, and then go on to mars. and
   perhaps even the asteroid. this is just the current chapter of human
   exploration. o'brien: i totally agree, and it's interesting how
   frequently we forget that the space station is just the first step. it
   is, after all, 245 miles above us, no farther than from new york to
   boston, sort of on the very edge of the shore of a vast ocean, but
   until some time has been spent there, we would be foolhardy to go much
   farther. sometimes it's easy for people to be blase about it, because
   after all, they watch star trek or star wars, and expect that to be
   reality. but the real thing is much harder than hollywood would make
   it out to be. cnn: any final thoughts jeff or miles? williams: this
   mission culminates a very critical phase of the assembly of the
   international space station. the beginning phases suffered some delays
   due to various reasons, but over the last year, it has been
   incredible, the progress that the team has made in getting to an
   operational phase of the international space station. o'brien: this is
   actually day 1000 for the space station. the first piece, a russian
   piece, which was launched in november of '98. this is an important
   milestone. if you'd told me then that the construction would go this
   smoothly, i would have called you a liar. it's amazing how this
   challenge has unfolded before our eyes, and it turns out that the real
   problems have been earthly ones, of budgets, politics, and whether to
   let rich people visit! so, we could solve all the iss problems...
   ...by sending me. :) cnn: thanks for joining us today astronaut jeff
   williams and cnn's own self proclaimed "space cadet" miles o'brien.
   o'brien: thank you! williams: bye! miles o'brien joined cnn.com
   newsroom via telephone from cnn center in atlanta. jeff williams
   joined via telephone from houston, texas. cnn provided a typist for
   both.