CNN.com - Dr. Arthur Caplan: Ethics of human cloning - August  7, 2001
dr. arthur caplan has been the director of the center for bioethics and
   trustee professor of bioethics at the university of pennsylvania since
   1994. he is currently chairman of the advisory committee to the
   department of health and human services, centers for disease control
   and food and drug administration on blood safety and availability. he
   joined the cnn.com chat room from philadelphia, pa. cnn: thank you for
   joining us today, dr. caplan, and welcome. dr. arthur caplan: glad to
   be here. cnn: what are the ethical pros and cons of cloning? caplan:
   the pros are that you might be able to help infertile individuals and
   couples have children, and by making cloned cells, you might find a
   way to make tissues and even organs to treat diseases. that's called
   therapeutic cloning. the cons are that human cloning is not safe.
   animal cloning has produced many dead, deformed and diseased animals.
   however, i do favor making cloned cells for research. chat
   participant: what do they mean by "cloning human beings"? just parts,
   or whole people? caplan: what they're talking about in washington,
   d.c. today is cloning people. that's what is of interest to this group
   that says they're going to set up in the mediterranean and make
   babies. the debate about stem cells that's been going on for many
   weeks is about making parts for people. chat participant: why are we
   even considering human cloning when animal cloning is as yet
   unperfected? caplan: good question. i don't think we should be. but,
   unfortunately, some scientists out on the fringe are threatening to
   ignore the miserable track record with animals, and start cloning
   people now. i don't think they can do it. but, that's why we're
   talking about it. chat participant: in retrospect, wouldn't it have
   been better to approve cloning research with oversight and regulations
   instead of having to deal with "rogue" groups who have no oversight?
   caplan: i agree again. it's still not too late to do that. the house
   of representatives here in the united states has banned all cloning.
   that's too strong in my view. i think we should allow some research
   with cloned cells, see if that works, keep it under government
   oversight, and that will be the best protection we can have against
   kooks and cults. chat participant: airplanes weren't perfected when we
   attempted to launch humans in space. can't the same be said here?
   caplan: no. think about in vitro fertilization. that was started after
   ten years of work with animals. we knew it would work, or at least had
   a lot of reason to think it would be safe and work in people. babies
   aren't astronauts. they can't consent. so, you really have to be sure
   from your animal work that it's safe before you try cloning in people.
   chat participant: what happens to messed up human clones? how do we
   deal with them? caplan: that's a question that the people who say they
   want to clone keep ignoring. but it is unethical to ignore that
   question. the people who say they're going to clone now know that if
   they were to make one sick, dying or defective baby, the world would
   completely reject cloning. so, they don't talk about that prospect.
   chat participant: which country is currently leading the way in clone
   research? caplan: undoubtedly, it would be the united kingdom. britain
   has passed a law allowing government money for cell cloning. also, the
   country of singapore has said that it will permit cloning research.
   thirty countries, including england, have banned cloning for human
   reproduction. chat participant: are you worried that human cloning
   will create a commercial market for human fetuses? caplan: not really.
   i think that if you make cells from adult dna, as dolly was made, then
   you don't really have a market in embryos. if you want to make a human
   clone baby, however, you'll need a lot of money, since it would cost
   tens of thousands of dollars to try that. chat participant: is there
   much resistance to organ-cloning? caplan: not really. as long as
   you're not making people, if you're really just making cells, or even
   skin or liver in a dish - while that seems odd - there really isn't
   any serious objection to that kind of work. chat participant: do you
   think the ironically-timed release of the title for star wars, episode
   2, "attack of the clones", is a political jab by george lucas? caplan:
   yes. hollywood loves cloning. there's a show coming on this fall
   called "after amy," about the first attempt to make a human clone.
   arnold schwarzenegger tried to play to this recent interest in cloning
   with his movie, and all the jurassic park movies are premised on
   cloning. it's something we love to get afraid of. chat participant:
   will cloning maintain the dynamics of genetics? caplan: sometimes
   people worry that if you clone, you'll weaken the genetic makeup of
   our species. but that isn't really a big danger, since when you really
   understand that cloning is just copying dna, and you can't bring back
   the dead, or live forever by cloning, very few people will want to do
   it. chat participant: in a world that is over-populated anyway, why
   would we consider producing possibly thousands of babies and clones?
   caplan: i don't think we're going to have thousands of clones. we may
   get some, but not enough to tip the world's population balance. even
   though there are too many people in some parts of the world, by some
   calculations, the drive to have one's own biological children is very
   strong, and that is something that medicine and science respond to.
   chat participant: what do you think of the idea of creating a perfect
   type of human (blue eyes, blonde hair etc..) and cloning him
   repeatedly? caplan: well, the real future battle will not be about
   cloning, it will be about designing better babies. that's genetic
   engineering, not cloning. i think parents will want to make better and
   improved children. the key ethical question will be whether society
   will allow that, or whether it will be seen as too dangerous in terms
   of equity and fairness to create people who are simply too perfect,
   relative to others. but that is the debate down the road that will
   keep bioethicists busy for a long time. cnn: do you have any final
   thoughts to share with us? caplan: i would not worry that we'll see a
   human clone any time soon. the science with animals shows that it's
   very hard to do. on the other hand, i think it would be a bad idea to
   panic and ban all research with cloning. we should prohibit cloning
   worldwide for making babies. i think we should keep the door open a
   little bit for basic research with cloning cells. cnn: thank you for
   joining us today caplan: visit our web site at www.bioethics.net.
   thank you! dr. arthur caplan joined the cnn.com chat room by telephone
   and cnn provided a typist. this is an edited transcript of the
   interview which took place on tuesday, august 7, 2001.