CNN.com - showbuzz - July 23, 2001
noblesville, indiana -- david letterman might be a big star, but
   everyone knows he's a mama's boy at heart. the host of "late show" and
   indiana native visited his mother, dorothy mengering, at her home in
   noblesville for her 80th birthday over the weekend. the mother and son
   went to the classic kitchen restaurant to celebrate. the place was
   closed to the public for three hours for the party. "dorothy was the
   star, not dave," said steve keneipp, owner and chef at the classic
   kitchen restaurant. "dorothy was the event." when she's not living the
   quiet life in noblesville, mengering makes appearances on letterman's
   popular talk show and has come to be a recognizable public figure.
   seattle, washington -- harrison ford says he loves to fly. the actor
   who initially gained fame by playing the pilot of the spaceship
   millennium falcon on the "star wars" series spoke recently at a
   fund-raising gala for seattle's museum of flight. the event was part
   of an effort to raise $3 million for children's programs at the
   museum. ford, who flew his own float plane into seattle, said he was
   happy to help "engage kids in the romance and the mystery and the
   adventure of flying ... i know what it means," he said, the associated
   press reports. sometimes, ford uses his flying for more than fun.
   earlier this month, ford piloted his own helicopter to pick up a boy
   who had been lost overnight in a forest in northwestern wyoming. it
   was the second time he plucked a person from the wilds near one of his
   homes. radnor, pennsylvania -- someone please give erik estrada a pat
   on the back for not taking himself too seriously. the actor who
   starred in the 1970s tv show "chips" says he has been having fun
   playing himself on shows such as "v.i.p.," "popular" and "the nanny."
   he said he might even hold the record for playing himself the most. "i
   think me and bill shatner are neck-and-neck," estrada tells tv guide.
   "i had fun with all that stuff. it's not real; it's not the cure for
   cancer -- it's camp." estrada's latest project - lending his voice to
   the cartoon network's "sealab 2001" was an easy decision. "they wanted
   a character who's rugged, funny, a ladies' man," estrada says. and, he
   added, "i don't have to shower, shave. i can just show up and do it."
   hollywood, california -- the show goes on for "will & grace." but for
   a moment, it was delayed. it seems the pair who created the show --
   max mutchnick and david kohan -- were staying away from nbc studios,
   where the show is created, while their representatives negotiated a
   resolution on a key deal point involving the duo's future profits from
   the series, variety reports. according to variety, mutchnick and
   kohan's reps were concerned about the upcoming negotiations between
   nbc and its production arm nbc studios to extend the network's license
   fee agreement for "will & grace." because the negotiation is all in
   the family, mutchnick and kohan may be worried that nbc will get a
   cut-rate deal to renew "will & grace" -- thus costing them extra
   profit. in the end, the two sides worked out a compromise that calls
   for mutchnick and kohan to be involved in the renegotiation process
   between nbc studios and the network. "everything's fine," nbc studios
   president ted harbert said.