CNN.com - Bush daughter joins Euro trip - July 19, 2001
london, england -- president bush and first lady laura bush arrived at
   raf brize norton airfield, 40 minutes outside london, around 4 p.m.
   edt as they began a six-day trip that will include the g8 summit in
   italy. along with the bushes is one of their twin daughters, barbara
   -- making it the first time one of the bush children has joined an
   international presidential trip. the other daughter, jenna, is not
   with the family because of a summer job, said gordon johndroe, a white
   house spokesman. he would provide no details on the job. barbara also
   had a summer job but recently wrapped it up, johndroe said. the trip
   marks bush's third visit to london, said johndroe. the president
   attended a meeting for young business leaders, called the young
   presidents organization conference, in 1990. he also visited london in
   1982 as he headed to scotland for a friend's wedding. other senior
   bush advises travelling on air force one include andrew card, chief of
   staff; condoleezza rice, national security adviser; karen hughes,
   counsellor to the president; karl rove, senior political adviser; and
   ari fleischer, bush's spokesman. the bushes first stop will be the
   u.s. ambassador's residence. earlier wednesday, outside the u.s.
   embassy in london, dozens of protesters demonstrated against bush's
   proposal for a national missile defense system, and his opposition to
   the international treaty negotiated in kyoto, japan, to combat global
   warming. "george bush, here us say, star wars, no way," they chanted.
   some held signs that read, "say no to son of star wars." other signs
   read, "world's number one polluter -- reverse global warming." after a
   slight drizzle turned into a heavier rainfall, the demonstrations
   appeared to break up. local police guarded the u.s. embassy, but
   allowed the demonstrators to freely protest behind fences across the
   street. in addition to the g8 summit, bush's trip will include
   meetings with uk prime minister tony blair and lunch with the queen on
   thursday, as well as an audience with pope john paul ii in rome and a
   visit to kosovo. while in london, the president and his wife laura
   will also visit the cabinet war rooms to view memorabilia linked to
   former british prime minister sir winston churchill -- one of his
   heroes. they will also visit the british museum, where they will read
   to schoolchildren