CNN.com - Paramount options 'John Carter of Mars' - April 12, 2002
hollywood, california (reuters) -- paramount pictures sees green in the
   red planet, inking a deal to acquire rights to an 11-volume science
   fiction adventure series written decades ago by edgar rice burroughs,
   author of the original "tarzan" legend, variety reports. under the
   deal, paramount has agreed to option the "john carter of mars" serial
   for a $300,000 upfront fee and to pay a $2 million sum if the studio
   brings the work to production. paramount-based producers jim jacks and
   sean daniels' alphaville prods. plans to turn the first book into a
   movie. although burroughs is best known for having penned the iconic
   "tarzan of the apes," the english writer's first book was "a princess
   of mars." written in 1912, it was serialized in all-story magazine
   under his nom de plume, normal bean. jacks told daily variety that
   three of the best-known books (which include "gods of mars" and "the
   warlord of mars") are likely to be made into films of a scope "akin to
   'the lord of the rings' and 'star wars,' but were impossible to make
   before, because cgi (computer technology) wasn't there." the massive
   scope and special-effects demands of the project weren't the only
   reasons the film was not made previously. for almost a decade, disney
   spent millions developing the "mars" books as both a live-action and
   animation franchise for cinergi, the production venture of mario
   kassar and andy vajna. disney showered millions on the projects,
   developing for tom cruise to star and john mctiernan to direct. the
   mouse house ultimately failed to greenlight production of either
   incarnation. jacks acknowledged that there "is a complicated legal
   situation and significant rights (still) need to be acquired." still,
   the deal is interesting for paramount. other than its "star trek"
   franchise, paramount is not usually the home to pricey effects-driven
   fantasy films, though it found success with "lara croft: tomb raider."
   studio brass obviously take comfort in knowing jacks and daniels are
   on the job -- the duo made universal's wildly successful "the mummy"
   and "the mummy returns" movies, which have a combined worldwide gross
   of more than $840 million. an offshoot of that franchise, "the
   scorpion king," which alphaville also produced, opens this month --
   though jacks noted the "mars" books were not necessarily intended as a
   starring vehicle for "king" star dwayne johnson (aka the rock).
   coupling science-fiction and romantic derring-do, "a princess of mars"
   is the first adventure of john carter, a veteran of the american civil
   war who, while resting in a cave, finds himself transported to mars.
   instead of a dusty, lifeless rock, carter finds mars populated with
   giant (predictably green) men, and creatures both friendly and
   ferocious, disembodied and embodied. along the way, carter must save a
   princess, dejah thoris. danton burroughs, grandson of edgar rice
   burroughs and a director of the rights holding company, noted that
   disney was hardly the first to have tried to create an animated film
   from the john carter series. in 1936, rice burroughs collaborated with
   warner bros. animator bob clampett (who as a teen in 1930 had
   developed the first licensed mickey mouse doll for walt disney) to
   make a cartoon feature from the carter books. deal was brokered by
   attorney sandra galfas on behalf of the rice burroughs estate; she was
   not available for comment.