CNN.com - Russia condemns U.S. missile test - July 15, 2001
london, england -- the united states' test of its controversial
   anti-ballistic missile system has been denounced by moscow and
   environmental groups. russia's foreign ministry said the trial in the
   pacific ocean, which the pentagon said was successful, threatened the
   1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty and risked sparking a new arms
   race. "why should the entire architecture of agreements in nuclear
   disarmament and nonproliferation, and its cornerstone, the 1972 abm
   treaty, be put under threat?" said foreign ministry spokesman
   alexander yakovenko. still, he said, russia is open "for an early and
   substantive dialogue with the u.s. on the start [treaty] and abm
   problems" and other strategic issues based on recent understandings.
   the launch was conducted ahead of the arrival of the president of
   china -- another country which fiercely opposes the proposal -- in
   moscow on sunday. in china itself, reuters reported the official
   xinhua news agency giving a report on the test quoting from a pentagon
   statement, followed by the conclusion: "arms control experts said that
   the u.s. missile defence plan, opposed by the international community,
   will not only spark a new arms race, but also threaten world peace and
   security, and stimulate nuclear proliferation." meanwhile, in south
   korea, about 1,000 demonstrators clashed with police at a u.s. bombing
   range, demanding their government not take any part in the planned
   system. washington has used the threat of "rogue states" such as north
   korea to underscore the need for a missile shield that it is planned
   will shoot missiles out of the air. the u.s. defence department said
   the latest test in which a dummy warhead, carried aboard a missile
   fired from a u.s. air force base in california, was shot down 225 km
   (140 miles) above the pacific by a "kill vehicle" launched from the
   marshall islands was a direct hit and air force lt. gen. ronald kadish
   told reporters at a pentagon briefing they would be pressing ahead
   with the programme: "this is one in a series of tests, and we will
   continue to press (forward) to our objectives in the programme ...
   this test is just one in a journey." but environmental campaign group
   greenpeace said the latest $100-million dollar launch put lives at
   risk, going ahead with two greenpeace divers and boats being within
   the safety zone area. it said 18 protesters in the area of the test
   had now been arrested. and it said continued tests would put millions
   of lives at risk around the world. "the star wars program threatens to
   start a new nuclear arms race," greenpeace pacific spokeswoman
   samantha magick said in a statement. a spokesperson for the british
   ministry of foreign affair told cnn that while aware of the test it
   did not change the government's position that it would not respond on
   the defence plan until a firm proposal was on the table. many other
   european countries have fears for the effects on international
   stability and the abm treaty. the u.s.-soviet pact banned such systems
   on the assumption that it would discourage both sides from launching a
   first strike for fear of retaliation. kadish said the next test is
   scheduled for october and may include added decoys to simulate a real
   attack. bush has says he plans to have the system in place by 2004.