CNN.com - Russia seeks U.S. missile clarity - July 18, 2001
rome, italy -- russian foreign minister igor ivanov has called for more
   clarity on u.s. plans for a missile defence shield. in advance of a
   summit between president bush and russian president vladimir putin,
   ivanov met u.s. secretary of state colin powell on the sidelines of
   the g8 foreign ministers meeting. ivanov said moscow was willing to
   carry on talking about a new strategic framework, including the
   missile defence system which would be developed to shoot down incoming
   missiles. but he added: "as for timing, i would appreciate a more
   clear picture on that." powell, standing next to ivanov at a news
   conference after their two-hour meeting, said: "we had a thorough
   discussion on strategic issues and the u.s. desire to move forward on
   a new strategic framework proposal that deals with offensive strategic
   weapons and defensive systems." ivanov said russia was prepared for
   "substantive and concrete" discussions on strategic stability. powell
   said the pentagon's plans would become more clear "in the very near
   future" and would give russia a "basis upon which to make judgements
   as to how we should move forward." ivanov was asked if he had a clear
   sense of how much time russia has to work out an agreement with the
   u.s. before washington undertakes missile defence activities that
   would go beyond the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty (abm). but he
   merely re-affirmed that russia was prepared to continue dialogue on
   strategic issues, which began when u.s. president george w. bush and
   russian president vladimir putin met at a summit in slovenia last
   month. ivanov and powell held a working breakfast before the start of
   a meeting of foreign ministers of the g8 nations later on wednesday.
   russia has been staunchly opposed to any changes in the soviet-era abm
   treaty with washington and has said the recent u.s. test of a missile
   interceptor was a threat to the entire structure of nuclear
   disarmament treaties. putin, speaking at a wide-ranging kremlin news
   conference on wednesday, said russia was had "enough of its own
   nuclear deterrent" and was "prepared for any eventuality." italian
   defence minister antonio martino said italy backed the controversial
   u.s. plan for a missile defence shield. he said an agreement on the
   issue needed time but should not to be ruled out. "a world free from
   the nightmare of missiles with a nuclear, chemical, or biological
   warhead is a world where i would like to live," martino told corriere
   della sera newspaper. he said it was "good news" that a u.s. test on
   the project over the pacific ocean had been positive and added that
   the high cost was irrelevant compared with the benefits the shield
   would bring. asked whether he thought the rome meeting and the heads
   of state summit in genoa beginning on friday could bring progress in
   talks on the shield, which is opposed by russia and china, martino
   said any steps forward would need time. "the issue will not be solved
   in a week. they will not find an agreement at the g8. but this does
   not mean the shield will not be done. on the contrary," said martino,
   foreign minister in prime minister silvio berlusconi's previous
   government in 1994. "my impression is that progress, if there will be
   progress, will need time. but we must not consider words which if
   interpreted literally might induce pessimism as barring future
   developments." martino said he believed putin was not hostile to the
   project, but did not consider it urgent. "he also does not say the
   (abm) cannot be modified ... but he wants everyone to know that if you
   don't involve us, if you don't talk with us, we are opposed." on eu
   opposition, he said: "i don't see a monolithic front against (the
   plan) ... i would not say the europeans are against. there are some
   governments which have objections," he said. britain has broadly
   backed the missile plan, but other europeans are concerned it will
   undermine existing arms control agreements. france has warned it could
   lead to the proliferation of ballistic weapons.