CNN.com - showbuzz - July 12, 2001
orlando, florida -- backstreet boy a.j. mclean's mom is proud of her
   troubled son -- proud that he's doing the right thing. mclean began a
   30-day program earlier this week to treat his depression and alcohol
   abuse. it forced the backstreet boys -- one of the world's most
   popular boy bands -- to postpone their tour. "i was very proud of him
   for realizing he had a problem and doing something about it on his
   own," denise mclean told orlando television station wkmg on wednesday.
   denise mclean said she's confident her son will return to performing.
   "i'm sure he's going to want to go out there and talk about it and
   really help as many people as he can," she said. jackson, wyoming --
   it wasn't the millennium falcon swooping down to the rescue at the end
   of "star wars," but harrison ford -- aka han solo in the george lucas
   blockbuster -- used his flying skills to save a 13-year-old boy from
   the wilds of wyoming. it happened earlier this week, according to the
   associated press. a utah boy scout named cody clawson wandered off a
   trail monday and spent a cold night alone in the secluded forest, said
   the teton county sheriff's office in wyoming. on tuesday, ford and
   another searcher took the skies in his helicopter found clawson, clad
   in a t-shirt, shorts and sandals, about 10 miles from a boy scout
   camp. clawson survived the rainy night by taking cover under a rock
   outcropping. he planned to resume the scout trip, which is scheduled
   to end saturday, said his mother, peggy clawson. "cody said the kids
   asked if he got an autograph and he said, 'no, but i got a hug and a
   handshake, and that's better than an autograph,'" she said. this is
   the second time in a year ford guided his helicopter into the
   backcountry for a rescue. last july, he plucked a sick hiker off
   11,106-foot table mountain in teton county. cape town, south africa --
   action-adventure star arnold schwarzenegger is helping promote the
   special olympics in africa, the associated press reports.
   schwarzenegger was in cape town for the launch of a special olympics
   initiative to recruit an additional 100,000 african athletes by 2005.
   he said there is much work to be done. "we all know the intellectually
   challenged are still the most neglected and stigmatized people in the
   world. we have to do everything to make them equals," he said. more
   than 1 million athletes in some 160 countries participate in special
   olympics meets each year, but only 25,000 of them are in africa. the
   world health organization estimates the continent has about 6 million
   mentally disabled people. "there are so many people out there who need
   to be reached," said schwarzenegger, has been an ambassador for the
   special olympics since 1979 and is a son-in-law of special olympics
   founder eunice kennedy shriver. los angeles, california -- glen
   campbell, who starred alongside john wayne in the 1969 film "true
   grit," is helping american movie classics promote its john wayne film
   festival, which runs thursday through sunday. on tuesday, campbell
   said working with wayne was a career highlight. "acting alongside the
   larger-than-life star i'd grown up idolizing back in delight,
   arkansas, was truly one of the most memorable experiences of my life,"
   said campbell, 65. he also took time to recall one of his favorite
   john wayne moments -- when he witnessed the duke clear a fence on
   horseback during the filming of "true grit." director henry hathaway
   was worried it would be a financial disaster if wayne got hurt doing
   the stunt, said campbell. "duke insisted that he do his own jump,"
   campbell recalled. "he shouted at hathaway, 'i ain't having no one
   jump for me. i'll do my own stunts, thank you. besides, i can jump a
   four-rail fence without a horse.' "so john wayne ... rolled in the
   saddle as his nag ran at a gallop in the snow toward the chest-high
   fence. the horse stretched, duke rose, and the two cleared the fence
   with plenty of room." the amc film festival will feature 35 films
   starring wayne. the duke died in 1979 at age 72.