CNN.com - 'Frasier' up, WB down over Emmy nods - July 13, 2001
(cnn) -- "the same old boring shows" -- that's how wb entertainment
   president jordan levin described the 2001 class of emmy nominees. of
   course, it could be sour grapes -- wb was completely shut out by the
   academy of television arts & sciences as it dished out its annual
   nominations for what it sees as the best shows on television. out of
   416 nominations unveiled thursday at a los angeles news conference, wb
   received zero. even its baby, "buffy the vampire slayer," was ignored,
   despite a strong marketing push from the wb front. the wb is a unit of
   aol time warner, as is cnn. "if 'catcher in the rye' were released
   today, academy members would look at the book and consider it a
   dime-store paperback," levin told industry publication daily variety.
   "the academy is totally out of step with the viewing public. every
   report i heard this morning listed the same old boring shows." some
   might argue with the "boring" part, but "same" seemed to be the theme
   for emmy voters. the academy will announce its emmy winners on
   september 16 in los angeles. the ceremony will be broadcast on cbs.
   and just like last year, the two top contenders to win the most emmy
   nods are hbo's "the sopranos" (22 nominations) and nbc's "the west
   wing" (18). both are once again nominated for best drama, and so is
   "law & order," which has been picked in that category for 10 years
   running. other categories, like best comedy, also have familiar shows,
   including last year's winner, "will & grace." "frasier," nbc's
   perennial emmy favorite in the sitcom category, was also nominated and
   it has a chance to break the all-time record for most emmys for a
   sitcom. "the mary tyler moore" show took 29 in its run; "frasier" has
   24, with 11 nominations this year. levin, who's an academy member,
   said he thinks the academy picks (or re-picks) signify a "reverse
   ageism" in place among voters. they pick what's familiar, not
   necessarily what's fresh, he said. "they for some reason don't look at
   young adult programming as important enough to be nominated," he said.
   "there's an arrogance and egotism about it. they're making the emmy
   awards irrelevant." tv academy chair meryl marshall-daniels disagreed.
   wb missed out simply because the competition is fierce, she says. "the
   process is a tough one," she told variety. "the wb has some superb
   programming, and there's no reason why that shouldn't be reflected
   somewhere. it's tough to break through the consciousness of a
   significant body of professionals." the academy also points out that
   it was quick to create a category that focused on the newly emerging
   "reality programming." up for new best reality program are cbs'
   "survivor," mtv's "road rules: maximum velocity tour," the vh1 series
   "band on the run," usa's "eco-challenge: borneo" and tlc's (the
   learning channel) "junkyard wars." "for everybody who would argue this
   (reality tv) is not on a par with more conventional dramas or comedy,
   somebody else would argue this is the now and the future of tv," emmy
   awards director john leverence told the associated press. "this is
   something with enormous mass appeal." another angle to watch as emmy
   night unfolds: abc challenging cable competitors in made-for-tv movies
   categories. abc received 30 nominations in the long-form categories, a
   strong showing in a genre recently dominated by pay networks like hbo.
   the abc movies that did the best with emmy: "life with judy garland:
   me and my shadows," with 13 mentions; and "anne frank," with 11. both
   will vie for best miniseries against "armistead maupin's further tales
   of the city" (showtime), "horatio hornblower" (a&e) and "nuremberg"
   (tnt).