CNN.com - New 'Star Wars' tidbits offered by Jackson - June 21, 2001
(cnn) -- in a world where movie fans are so hungry for new information on
   george lucas' "star wars" series, the latest comments from samuel l.
   jackson probably looks like a full-course meal. jackson, who starred
   as mace windu in "star wars: episode 1 - the phantom menace" and just
   finished shooting scenes for "episode 2," recently attended the los
   angeles premiere of "dr. dolittle 2." while the plot for "episode 2"
   has been kept under tight wraps, douglas hyde, a producer for cnn
   newsource's "daily news from entertainment weekly," asked jackson
   about the story line to the highly anticipated 2002 release. jackson
   offered tidbits of information. "everybody knows the story of how
   darth vader, (as a) kid, falls in love with the queen, so you have a
   love story. there's a big adventure going on, the clone wars (are)
   about to start, there's a lot of intrigue, there's a lot of back
   fighting and back-biting," said jackson. "so there's lots of stuff
   going on." when asked if the movie included a fight scene in a
   "gladiator"-like arena, which has been rumored, jackson played dumb.
   "where'd you hear that?" he asked. "my sources," came the reply. "oh,
   well see, you should talk to them," said jackson. he was also asked
   what color his light-saber would be. jackson still wasn't sure. "i can
   tell you i asked for a violet light. george thought about it and he
   said, 'well, the good guys have this color light and the bad guys have
   that color light,' " jackson said. "so he's debating whether he'll
   make my light something different or as common as everybody else's.
   "but you know, i don't care as long as it comes on." speculation about
   the plotline, characters and even minor details for sequels and
   prequels to the original "star wars" (1977) has become a sport for
   many fans. some have become active in the creation process -- sort of.
   last summer, a "star wars" fan made headlines when he created a
   faux-trailer for "episode 2," using older footage of the actors
   involved in the movie. more recently, a fan who was frustrated with
   "the phantom menace" re-edited the film, then passed around and sold
   copies of the new version, "the phantom re-edit: episode 1.1."