CNN.com - Activists end UK spy base protest - July  4, 2001
london, england -- demonstrators who occupied part of a british radar
   base have surrendered to police, ending a two-day protest against a
   proposed u.s. missile defence system. the last two protesters
   descended from a radio mast inside the menwith hill military base in
   north yorkshire at 10:10 p.m. (2110 gmt) on wednesday and voluntarily
   handed themselves over to the ministry of defence police, greenpeace
   told the associated press. the environmental group targeted the base
   because if the united states presses ahead with its proposed
   anti-missile defence system -- sometimes known as "son of star wars"
   -- menwith hill is believed to be earmarked as an early-warning
   monitoring station. on tuesday, about 100 protesters stormed inside
   the base's fenced-in grounds. while most were evicted later that day,
   at least one protester, new zealander richard carlson, spent the night
   on a radar tower after evading police. another 20 protesters staged a
   second break-in on wednesday. most were soon detained. by late
   wednesday afternoon, only two protesters remained inside the base. the
   pair, richard watson and al baker, surrendered wednesday night,
   greenpeace said. it was not immediately clear if there would be any
   charges filed against the protesters. carlson, who has now come down
   from the 50-metre tall mast he occupied after being chased off a roof,
   said he was pleased but surprised by the "success" of the action. "i
   was frankly very surprised at the way we were able to evade security
   for so long and i am really pleased with the way it has worked out,"
   he said. "the message has gone out loud and clear to (u.s. president)
   george bush and (uk prime minister) tony blair that we do not want
   star wars." the ministry of defence said earlier on wednesday seven
   arrests had been made, reuters reported. "the arrests have been mainly
   for causing damage but the protesters have not been particularly
   offensive," a spokeswoman said. "but throwing paint around is not a
   good idea." the ministry of defence has refused to comment on the
   security lapses but blair's official spokesman said the breaches would
   have to be looked into. "clearly they will want to look at security
   issues at the base but it is worth recognising that the base currently
   serves as a nato base to protect against missile attack, so it does
   have an important role to play in defending this country." the shield
   system is intended to protect the u.s. from long-range missile attack
   from what the u.s. refers to as "rogue" states citing north korea and
   iraq. washington says the system would also protect its allies. blair
   has said he has taken no decision on whether to back the project but
   many european nations, including russia and france, have expressed
   strong reservations, fearing it would mean the end of the 1972
   anti-ballistic missile treaty and the start of a new arms race.
   greenpeace said that if britain gives approval to bush's plan, menwith
   hill would be used as a ground relay station to transmit information
   on missile location and trajectory back to the u.s. to help with
   targeting for interceptor missiles. activists from the campaign for
   the accountability of american bases also marked the american
   independence day holiday with a protest at the facility's front
   entrance followed by a convoy to raf fylingdales, another u.s. base in
   britain in north yokshire.