CNN.com - Greenpeace invades UK radar base - July  3, 2001
london, england - environmental activists have invaded a british defence
   site to protest against the u.s. plan to develop an anti-missile
   defence system. the group of 100 british, danish and american
   activists broke into the menwith hill base, near harrogate in northern
   england, and occupied three areas, greenpeace told reuters. they
   targeted the base because if the u.s. does press ahead with the
   controversial plan -- sometimes known as "son of star wars" -- menwith
   hill has been earmarked as an early warning monitoring station for the
   system. one group of 50 activists, some carrying flags with the
   message "star wars starts wars" and others dressed as missiles, walked
   through the base's main gate playing the theme tune to "mission
   impossible," while some scaled the razor wire perimeter fence,
   greenpeace added. the shield system, proposed by u.s. president george
   w. bush, is intended to protect the u.s. from long-range missile
   attack from what the u.s. refers to as "rogue" states. washington says
   the system would also protect its allies. but many nations, including
   russia and france, have strong reservations, fearing it would mean the
   end of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty and the start of a new
   arms race. greenpeace executive director stephen tindale told the
   associated press: "bush can't install the system without (british
   prime minister) tony blair's approval. we urge mr. blair not to kowtow
   to bush on such a crucial issue." greenpeace said that if britain
   gives approval to bush's plan, menwith hill will be used as a ground
   relay station to transmit information on missile location and
   trajectory back to the u.s. to help with targeting for interceptor
   missiles. three sites, including menwith hill -- a u.s. eavesdropping
   station which the u.s. rents from the uk government -- and fylingdales
   radar station would have to be upgraded to facilitate the missile
   defence shield's early warning system. british mps recently criticised
   u.s. plans to develop the system claiming it to be "highly
   destabilising" to international security.