CNN.com - Will Bush and Putin still be friends? - July 10, 2001
london, england (cnn) -- the g8 summit and its aftermath should answer
   some key questions about the relationship between u.s. president
   george w. bush and russian president vladimir putin. not only will
   they meet as summit participants, but they will have another
   getting-to-know-you session together before they both leave italy. the
   two seemed to get on well when they met for the first time in
   ljubljana, slovenia on june 16. bush spoke of his respect for putin as
   an "honest, straightforward" man who loved his family and his country.
   he invited russia's leader to his texas ranch. he even claimed in
   their two hours together to have gained a "sense of his soul." the
   normally reserved putin responded to such chumminess by saying that he
   had invited bush not just to russia but to his home and that they were
   "all geared up to work in the future constructively, pragmatically and
   to establish a very good, predictable relationship." bush announced
   that the u.s. treasury and commerce secretaries would go to moscow to
   discuss plans for boosting u.s. investment in russia. while not hiding
   his worries about the abm treaty, putin was comparatively muted about
   bush's missile defence plan, merely declaring that "we have to sit
   down and have a good think." but no sooner was bush back in washington
   than putin, who tends to avoid confrontation in personal meetings,
   gave an interview to u.s. journalists which included stark warnings of
   a new arms race if bush went ahead with his plans. possibly angered by
   comments by a senior u.s. official that america would go ahead on
   missile defence with or without russian approval, putin declared: "we
   offer our co-operation. we offer to work jointly. if there is no need
   that such joint work is needed, well, suit yourself." he saw no
   immediate threat from the missile shield, whose technology is yet
   unproven, but warned: "we will reinforce our capability, mounting
   multiple warheads on our missiles. that will cost us a meagre sum. the
   nuclear arsenal of russia will be augmented multifold." the pentagon
   may shrug aside such noises. but it was not the kind of language other
   european leaders wanted to hear. they have already expressed their
   fears that u.s. abrogation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
   could set off an expensive and unpredictable arms race. president
   jacque chirac of france has echoed putin's insistence that the abm
   treaty, which bush says he will scrap to pursue missile defence, is a
   cornerstone of international security. and while european leaders have
   welcomed the new thrust from bush and his aides offering
   "consultation" with russia and others on missile defence, they have
   noted too there is no suggestion from washington that it is prepared
   to compromise on the outcome. they have not forgotten that in okinawa,
   japan, last year, putin arrived at his first g8 determined to make the
   most of the issue of what europe calls "son of star wars" and that he
   succeeded brilliantly in stirring up tensions between the u.s. and its
   european allies. since then, they have seen the u.s. and russia on
   different sides in the struggle over sanctions against iraq. the
   bush-putin meeting in slovenia last month had to produce good public
   relations, especially after bush had gone out of his way to insist all
   across europe that russia was not his enemy, and it duly did. but the
   other leaders will be watching warily in genoa to see what the mood is
   when bush and putin get together for a second time, with the initial
   pleasantries out of the way. they want to know if this is a friendship
   which promises to last and to provide the "regular, detailed and
   serious consultations" that bush spoke about in ljubljana -- or
   whether it is one that will founder in the first squall.