CNN.com - Harry Belafonte on the AIDS crisis in Africa - June 26, 2001
(cnn) -- as a unicef goodwill ambassador, harry belafonte and his wife
   julie visited south africa during june to mobilize support for the
   campaign to fight hiv/aids. mr. belafonte is a renowned concert
   singer, and film, theatre and television star. he has served as a
   unicef goodwill ambassador since 1987. cnn moderator: welcome to
   cnn.com newsroom, harry belafonte. we're very pleased to have you with
   us today. belafonte: i welcome this opportunity to be able to talk to
   your chat audience, and i thank you for giving unicef and myself a
   chance to address the audience. cnn moderator: you've just returned
   from several days in south africa on a mission to raise aids awareness
   for unicef. how have south african children been affected by aids/hiv?
   belafonte: i think if you were to pick any segment of the society that
   has been most affected by the ravages of hiv/aids, i'd say it is the
   children. not only are they affected by the onslaught of the disease
   with all the contaminants we are aware of, but the ability to speak
   for themselves, to seek relief for themselves is non-existent. so the
   innocence of youth, coupled with the onslaught of the disease itself
   against those who are not old enough to fend for themselves, is a
   great part of the problem. you have to understand that most of the
   continent of africa is poverty-ridden, and that almost 86 percent of
   the continent is illiterate. when you move to bring assistance and
   relief to tragic moments and moments of devastation, you have to also
   deal with the fact that communication is a huge problem. they cannot
   read, write, or follow simple instructions. they're also ravaged by
   malnutrition, and their conditions are physically and mentally
   weakened by malnutrition and other diseases like whooping cough and
   cholera. all of those are bombarding the bodies of the young people.
   we have just now begun to bring intelligence to the table, which can
   help us turn the corner. added to this is the other mischief of
   society-- wars, destabilization, such as the civil war in the sudan,
   which has been going on for three years. almost three million people
   have died in that war. then there's the congo, and sierra leone, where
   people are fleeing in terror and have no sense of community. all of
   those things are part of the problem. when hiv comes on the table of
   contents, we have a terrible opponent that requires imagination and
   intelligence. chat participant: what is nelson mandela's thoughts on
   aids in his country, and what does he think about mr. mbeki's approach
   (denial) to that disease? belafonte: first, i had the great pleasure
   of spending some quality time with mandela, (medba, as we call him)
   and his wife, graca michelle and they are both very full-time
   committed to all of the issues that involve the children of south
   africa. he has the nelson mandela foundation and an educational fund,
   and he supports other youth organizations in the country, many that
   are doing remarkable work in educating and spreading the word and
   creating an atmosphere for growth among the children. president
   mbeki's remarks have created some interesting and remarkable results
   in africa. first, what he said about the medical environment-- he
   rebroadened the debate, so we won't just look at the myths of medical
   information, those things are a constant, as they should be in seeking
   a solution. but he said that we should focus on the things we know,
   things that contribute, like poverty, illiteracy, ignorance, health
   care issues, and all of the other attendant evils that come out of
   poverty. in the face of all of this, what his remarks did was to
   awaken a greater debate. i'm encouraged that tony blair hastened to
   embrace mr. mbeki, and hastened to throw his resources, endorsing him,
   in mbeki's visit to england recently. the prime minister thought that
   mr. mbeki's approach and attitude are on the right track. i should
   also say that the leonardo da vinci institute has just given mr. mbeki
   their highest award. in talking to mr. mbeki himself, and getting a
   clear sense of what he said, i saw nothing that is inconsistent with
   where medical science is going. he doesn't dismiss sexual promiscuity,
   but he says that we need to stop ignoring other contributors to the
   problem. chat participant: what is unicef doing about the drug
   companies' reluctance to sell hiv drugs at a price that people can
   afford in africa? belafonte: unicef, through our remarkable leader
   carol bellamy, and with the assistance of kofi annan and others, has
   taken a strong and clear position on the misconduct that has been
   evidenced by the drug companies, and how they've approached the
   problem of hiv/aids, and their indifference of the problem, as it
   affects their profits in relationship to the drugs they make and sell.
   these pharmaceutical companies in their arrogance decided to sue the
   south african government in their own courts. mr. mbeki asked: how
   dare you bring a suit because the profitability of your product is at
   stake, when there are life and death issues facing millions of people
   who are affected by the absence of drugs and medical care, and you are
   trying to deny our right to go to any source to find the medicine we
   need in this country. the position alone is immoral, and the
   pharmaceutical companies, because of the great outcry from the world,
   dropped the suit, because it was morally unacceptable. chat
   participant: is mr. belafonte doing any concerts to help raise money?
   belafonte: yes. as a matter of fact, i've talked at great length with
   fellow artists in africa, who are beginning to organize an artist's
   campaign to spread the word, to bring the voice of artists to educate
   and bring hope to millions who need to hear our voice, since many who
   can't read or write will need to hear our voice, directing people to
   intelligence that will help them get on with their lives. chat
   participant: is there anything we can do as american citizens to help
   you in this fight? belafonte: yes. first, i would suggest that we seek
   to get information that more fully informs us about all the aspects of
   this campaign, and if people are to tap into our web site,
   www.unicefusa.org, that would give them access to endless information
   on many questions. or call our number, 1-800-for-kids, which would
   also give them information on a host of questions that might be off
   the table of everyday dialogue. but i'd also hope that the citizens of
   this country, those who have been committed in giving and compassion,
   that they not give up in frustration. some are led to believe that the
   money doesn't go to the people who need it, or the people who can
   manage the problem. some believe the money is going to corrupt
   governments and leaders, and although this has happened occasionally,
   it's very rare, and the money is put to good use. cnn moderator: thank
   you for joining us today, harry belafonte. belafonte: good bye, chat
   audience, and thank you for the chance to chat with you. i wish i
   could stay forever, doing this work, because it's so important. thank
   you for your thoughts and questions, and please don't give up on this
   campaign we're waging against this global problem. harry belafonte
   joined the chat room via telephone from new york, ny. cnn provided
   typist. the above is an edited transcript of the interview on tuesday,
   june 26, 2001.