CNN.com - Showbuzz - June 19, 2001
hollywood, california -- george lucas' "star wars: episode i - the
   phantom menace" will be released on dvd this coming fall, variety
   reports. the 1999 picture is the first of george lucas' "star wars"
   films to be distributed on the digital format. it hits stores october
   16. "phantom menace" is the third-biggest theatrical release of all
   time, with $431 million in u.s. box office receipts. but already
   "phantom menace" will have competition for its dvd premiere. also
   releasing in october: "the godfather," "snow white and the seven
   dwarfs" and "the mummy returns." london, england -- noel gallagher
   says he's happier than ever before. in an interview with the daily
   telegraph, the oasis guitarist and songwriter says he quit doing
   drugs, and he feels good about it. "i liked drugs, i was good at them.
   but i'd had panic attacks for about a year and i stopped because i
   wanted to," gallagher says. "after you make the decision it is quite
   easy. and i am quite proud of the fact that i didn't have to check
   into one of those dodgy clinics and have someone tell me i am a bad
   person. because i am not. "i like being clear-headed and eating at
   regular times. i feel happier than i ever have." gallagher says he
   stopped doing drugs to be a good father to his 1-year-old daughter,
   anais. he's divorced from the child's mother, meg mathews. things are
   so good for gallagher, he's even getting along with his brother, liam,
   the lead singer of oasis. the two used to feud constantly. now,
   gallagher appreciates his brother's "comic genius." "liam used to
   really annoy me, but now i think he is a comic genius, the funniest
   guy i have known in my entire life," gallagher says. bangkok, thailand
   -- meg ryan wants to help elephants in thailand. the actress arrived
   there on sunday to begin shooting a documentary about the plight of
   the country's dwindling numbers of wild elephants, the associated
   press reports. the 60-minute documentary is being produced by a
   british company, tigress productions, said richard c. lair, an adviser
   to the center of thai elephant conservation in lampang, 317 miles
   north of bangkok. ryan will travel to several locations across the
   country. though the elephant is the national animal for thailand, its
   natural habitat has suffered rapid destruction in recent decades.
   hollywood, california -- nbc is banking on another "seinfeld"
   standout. julia louis-dreyfus, who played elaine in the 1990s nbc
   sitcom about new york singles, will star in an as-yet-untitled comedy
   for the network, variety reports. the pilot shoots in july.
   louis-dreyfus will play a nightclub singer/voiceover artist living in
   los angeles. joining her on the show will be steve carell (comedy
   central's "the daily show") and peter stormare ("chocolat"). also,
   louis-dreyfus' sister, susan bowles, may have a recurring role in the
   project, should it be picked up as a series. and brad hall ("the
   single guy"), louis-dreyfus' husband, is the creator/executive
   producer of the pilot.