CNN.com - Showbuzz - April 11, 2002
new york (reuters) -- sony pictures entertainment's upcoming new
   york-set action film "spider-man" may be snared in a legal web over
   alleged digital doctoring of billboards looming high above times
   square, variety reports. sherwood outdoor, which controls billboard
   advertising at such prime locations as one times square, two times
   square and 1600 broadway, has filed suit against the media
   conglomerate in the u.s. district court in manhattan. the suit claims
   that in some scenes from "spider-man," sony digitally removed actual
   ads and inserted new ones from its marketing partners. among the
   businesses the suit claims were plugged are mobile-phone operator
   cingular wireless and newspaper usa today. a sherwood representative
   refused to talk about the suit. officials at sony and cingular said
   they had not yet received copies of the filing, and a representative
   at gannett, which owns usa today, was not available for comment. last
   week, cingular rolled out a nationwide marketing campaign built around
   "spider-man," including movie-themed faceplates, ring tones and
   downloadable promo material for the company's ericsson phones. this
   isn't the first dicey turn sony has had over "spider-man's" manhattan
   backdrop -- shortly after the september 11 terror attacks, its
   columbia pictures unit quickly decided to pull movie trailers that
   featured prominent shots of the world trade center. "spider-man,"
   which stars tobey maguire as marvel comics' web-slinging superhero, is
   slated for worldwide release may 3. london, england (ap) -- matt damon
   will make his london stage debut in kenneth lonergan's "this is our
   youth." damon will take over the lead role from hayden christensen on
   april 25, the garrick theater said wednesday. christensen, who plays
   anakin skywalker in the upcoming "star wars" film, stars with anna
   paquin and jake gyllenhaal in lonergan's barbed comedy about a trio of
   rich and wayward youths in 1980s new york. damon will appear alongside
   his "ocean's 11" co-star casey affleck -- brother of damon's longtime
   collaborator, ben affleck -- and summer phoenix. "this is our youth"
   is scheduled to run at the garrick theater until mid-june. los
   angeles, california (ap) -- it's a girl for oscar-winning actress
   geena davis. the 45-year-old actress gave birth yesterday afternoon to
   a girl at an undisclosed los angeles area hospital. a name and weight
   of the newborn are not being disclosed. davis married 30-year-old
   doctor reza jarrahy last september first. this is the couple's first
   child. davis won a supporting actress academy award for playing the
   kooky dog trainer in "the accidental tourist" and received an oscar
   nomination for her role in "thelma and louise." columbia, south
   carolina (ap) -- the godfather of soul performed his hit "i got you (i
   feel good)" on the steps of the state capitol as part of a beach music
   day celebration. a proclamation was issued by gov. jim hodges
   declaring james brown as south carolina's godfather of soul and
   recognizing the 68-year-old singer for his commitment to music. it
   wasn't clear whether brown would sing, but when the band struck up the
   chords to "i got you" during wednesday's celebration, he took the
   microphone. brown thanked hodges for the recognition. "i don't talk
   that good. i don't sing that good. but i can say, 'i feel good!'" he
   exclaimed. beach music, played during the 1950s and '60s along the
   coast, is the official popular music of the state. brown has won
   grammys for "papa's got a brand new bag" and "living in america." he
   lives in beech island near the georgia border. hollywood, california
   (reuters) -- comedy central has renewed two of its series, game show
   "beat the geeks" and martin short's celebrity interview comedy
   "primetime glick," variety reports. in addition, "geeks" has a new
   host, and an interactive element will be added to the series when the
   next batch of shows debuts july 8. blaine capatch will take over for
   j. keith van straaten as host. the cable comedy channel has ordered 65
   new episodes for the second cycle of "beat the geeks," which fox
   television studios produces. the show features contestants competing
   to answer trivia questions against three resident "geeks," who
   specialize in tv, movies and music, and a fourth expert who serves as
   "special guest geek." season three of "primetime glick," which stars
   short as fictitious interviewer jiminy glick, will premiere in early
   2003. ten episodes of that show have been ordered. short is creator of
   the series and exec produces with bernie brillstein.