CNN.com - Paul Vercammen: How's Hollywood's summer going? - June 27, 2001
(cnn) -- for hollywood, the summer -- traditionally a time of
   action-adventure blockbusters -- got an early start, with the first
   summer releases coming out three weeks before the traditional memorial
   day kickoff. cnn "showbiz today reports" correspondent paul vercammen
   checks in with a report card. q. how is the summer going? vercammen:
   so far, so good. the summer is up from last year; some say it's
   running about 7 percent better. and there have been some surprise
   hits. i don't think anybody anticipated that "shrek" would break out
   and make $215 million to this point. you've got quite a lot of
   momentum, and there are good number of movies that are opening well.
   the fast and the furious" just had a great opening weekend, and even
   though "tomb raider" sunk (in its second weekend), it too opened huge.
   and though some people may criticize "pearl harbor," it's up there. q.
   what happened with "pearl harbor"? that was supposed to be the
   dominant movie this summer. vercammen: "pearl harbor" has made $172
   million. that isn't anything to sneeze at. it's just that it was so
   hyped, and so discussed, and so talked about ... i think people just
   assumed it would be another "titanic." the reviews were not good, by
   and large, and some of the word of mouth may have helped erode the
   audience, so it wasn't able to maintain huge numbers week after week.
   but we should reemphasize: $172 million is still a pretty huge haul.
   (also,) i think one of the reasons "pearl harbor" has been
   overshadowed so much is because "shrek" has done so well. q. there
   don't seem to be lines around the block this year. is it still
   possible in this day and age, when movies are put into 3,000-plus
   theaters, to get a "line around the block"? vercammen: i think the
   tradition of the lines around the block only occurs for a major, major
   blockbuster like the "star wars" films. because now they do have
   enough theaters to handle (the crowds). we've got a glut of movie
   theaters in america, by the way, which has caused a lot of
   bankruptcies (among theater chains). for the rest of the summer, we
   might see some lines for "planet of the apes," "jurassic park 3," and
   after (the original) was such a sleeper hit, "american pie 2." q. what
   about "a.i."? vercammen: i was talking to a warner brothers insider
   and he thinks it's going to open huge because the reviews have been
   positive, it's spielberg, and they believe it's a solid film. they
   also think that it doesn't really have huge competition on its opening
   weekend, because the audience will probably drop off fairly quickly
   for "the fast and the furious" and some of the other movies out there.
   ... it's sort of a crossover film that could get older and younger
   audiences. there's nothing else of that stripe. q. what surprises
   could we see? vercammen: "rush hour 2," with jackie chan and chris
   tucker, is a sequel, and the first one did so well. (chan and tucker)
   proved to be quite a dynamic on-screen combination and there's some
   anticipation for that. "planet of the apes" is a wild card. it could
   open huge, or suddenly drop off as well. i don't think anybody knows
   that much about it. it brings a lot of fun to the hollywood guessing
   game here. even the theater chains scratch their heads and say, "how
   much do i cover my bases? how many screens do i put this on? how many
   showings do i have a day?" "scary movie 2" is another one of those
   summer sequels that could possibly be a huge smash. the first one
   certainly did well, and once you establish yourself in the
   marketplace, you start talking sequel -- as they are now with "the
   fast and the furious." one other potential sleeper -- "cats & dogs."
   there has been positive banter floating through hollywood about "cats
   & dogs," and there have been other movies that jump out in summer and
   suddenly stun the world, like "the sixth sense." q. anything else?
   vercammen: if (movie grosses) keep up this pace, we could set a record
   again at the box office for this year -- and it won't be because there
   was one superstar film that racked up more than $500 million. it will
   be because a lot of different movies lured people into the theaters.
   folks had their popcorn, decided they had a good time, and returned
   later for other films. there's a theory that moviegoing begets
   moviegoing, so once you see some trailers, you might be inspired to do
   it again.