CNN.com - Transcript: President Bush, Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski - June 15, 2001
aleksander kwasniewski president of poland (through translator): mr.
   president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my joy of having the
   president of the united states of america, george walker bush, here in
   poland. we are very honored that the first visit of the newly elected
   president of the united states of america is taking place in poland.
   we take it as a symbol but at the same time, as the confirmation of
   friendly and allied relations that poland and the united states has
   enjoyed for more than 100 years and which have developed in the last
   decade very strongly and is a good reason for respect. i once again
   want to welcome mr. president bush here in poland, and this
   transformation began in poland over 12 years is successful. also,
   thanks to our allies, to our friends and also thanks to american
   politicians, businessmen, all those who have supported us in this
   uneasy work. we remember the visit of george bush, sr., president of
   the united states in 1989, when poland was just starting its
   transformation. we are happy, mr. president, that we can demonstrate a
   better and changed democratic poland to you, the poland that is using
   its political opportunity. during our talks, we discussed the
   international order, and i wish to accept the determination on the
   part of the united states towards the enlargement of nato. we're happy
   to say that we have similar views over the political situation and the
   relations in central and eastern europe. the united states has been
   very supportive of poland. we're very close, not only in the political
   sense, but in every day cooperation as well. we have adopted the
   common resolution of the president of the republic of poland and the
   president of the united states of america. you've been distributed
   this important document because it refers to all most important issues
   and, at the same time, it has been written in very legible and
   understandable language to everyone. in our joint resolution, there is
   nothing that relates to diplomacy, but there's only the substance of
   our very close friendly and allied relations. this is what i wanted to
   say by introduction and welcome you, mr. president, once again. george
   w. bush, president of the united states: mr. president, thank you.
   thank you very much for your warm welcome, and thank you for the
   beautiful weather. kwasniewski: we have special relations. bush: i'll
   try to highlight that in my speech this afternoon. i'm the third
   president to come to your beautiful land since poland regained
   freedom. many more will follow because the bond between our two
   countries is very strong and that bond is formed of many things,
   starting with our love for freedom. over the last generation, the
   people of poland have suffered greatly to win freedom. bush: america
   stood with poland in that struggle. and we stand with you today in
   facing the challenges of a new era of democracy and economic progress.
   our hopes for peace for poland and all of europe depend on nato. since
   you joined the alliance two years ago, poland has contributed greatly
   to its success and serves as a fine example for all future members of
   nato. the president and i talked about how nato must continue to
   enlarge, to increase europe's security. we talked about the challenges
   and opportunity nato faces in its relations with russia and with
   neighbors in transition like the ukraine. today, u.s. and polish
   soldiers serve side by side as part of the nato contingent that seeks
   to bring peace and democracy to the balkans. it is important that
   poland's military remain well equipped. to that end, i'm pleased to
   announce that the united states is making the necessary legislative
   preparations to transfer a second frigate to the polish navy. the
   president and i also discussed poland's move towards membership in the
   european union. the eu is america's largest trading partner outside of
   north america. joining poland's economy to that of the eu is in all
   our interests and will only strengthen america's ties with all our
   atlantic partners. the interest of america and poland are clear, and
   they are the same: to continue building a more stable europe, to
   strengthen the institutions of democracy, freedom, commerce and mutual
   security, and to promote the prosperity that comes through investment
   and open trade. another topic we covered today was the common
   commitment of the united states and poland to spreading prosperity and
   democracy in this part of the world. and i was pleased to inform the
   president that the polish american enterprise fund will transfer $20
   million to the new polish american freedom foundation. in this way,
   our countries can continue the joint work of promoting democracy and
   free markets and the rule of law throughout central and eastern
   europe. i look forward to my meeting as well with the prime minister.
   i look forward to conveying my respect to him for his role in helping
   bring poland into nato. friendship and cooperation between our two
   countries is strong and is growing stronger. the republic of poland
   today is an equal partner in the work of building greater prosperity
   and security across europe, and it's a huge honor for me to be here.
   thank you, mr. president. kwasniewski: thank you, mr. president. now
   it's time for questions. question: in accordance with the brussels
   decision yesterday, in one year's time there will be further
   candidates in europe to negotiate their membership. will that one year
   be a sufficient period of time? and will one of the criteria be for
   nato membership so that nato could constitute a wholeness -- a whole
   area in political terms? bush: if i understand the question correctly,
   it was about nato expansion. my government believes nato should
   expand. we believe no one should be excluded because of history or
   location or geography. and we don't believe any nation should have a
   veto over who is accepted. we also believe a lot of progress has been
   made towards achieving the requirements necessary to be accepted into
   nato and look forward to the prague summit a year from this fall to a
   positive statement of expansion. i think it will happen, i don't know
   to the extent -- we will see, how many nations are accepted -- we will
   see. but in my speech today, i will say, it's not a matter of whether
   nato expands, it's a matter of when nato expands. we're strongly stand
   on the side of expansion of nato. question: president kwasniewski,
   thank you for your hospitality. president bush, there are fresh
   reports today about concerns of the u.s. government of proliferation
   from the russian government selling certain materials to nations such
   as iran. and before we left on this trip, your national security
   adviser expressed some doubts about president putin's commitment to
   democracy. i'm curious, sir, what is your general assessment of russia
   on these two vital questions -- proliferation, and its commitment to
   democracy? thank you, sir. bush: as you know full well, i've got a
   meeting with president putin tomorrow, and i am really looking forward
   to it because it's an opportunity for me to say to president putin:
   the united states is no longer your enemy. i also will stress that my
   vision of europe includes russia and that russia should not fear the
   expansion of freedom-loving people to her borders. russia has got vast
   potential and great opportunity, particularly if she makes a
   commitment to democratic institutions and to the rule of law and
   embraces the open market. i am concerned about some reports of the
   proliferation of weapons throughout russia's southern border -- for
   example, countries on her southern border -- and i will bring that
   subject up. i think it's important for russia to hear that our nation
   is concerned about the spreading of weapons of mass destruction. and
   i'll bring it up in the context of explaining why it is important for
   us to think differently about missile defenses, to think differently
   about the cold war doctrine that is codified in the abm treaty of
   1972. the more capacity a nation has -- a nation that can't stand
   america, our friends or allies -- to develop weapons of mass
   destruction, the more necessary it is for freedom-loving people to
   have the capacity to halt any political blackmail they may choose to
   inflict upon us. and so i will talk about democracy, democracy
   building. i'll talk about capital investment and the need for capital
   to have open markets, rule of law and transparency in the economy. and
   i'll also talk about security measures. question: this is a question
   to mr. bush. question: (off-mike) to poland as a symbol of our
   openness and our sympathy for the u.s. unfortunately, this gesture is
   not returned. i'd like to ask you if poles can count on not needing
   american visas soon. thank you. bush: american visas? question: yes,
   sir. bush: in other words, whether or not someone going to america
   needs a visa? question: yes, sir. bush: well, we can discuss that
   issue at the state department level, but poles are welcome in america.
   we welcome you to come. there are, as you know -- chicago is a city
   with many, many people of polish heritage. i would hope that it's easy
   to travel to our country. question: (off-mike) bush: thank you, sir.
   you're looking mighty sharp today, by the way. question: well, thank
   you very much. bush: don't you think? (laughter) question: i wonder if
   you would be specific, sir, about what incentives you're prepared to
   offer russian president putin to get both his blessing and perhaps his
   cooperation on missile defense? and additionally, as you just
   mentioned, if you no longer consider russia an adversary, then what is
   it? what do you want russia to become: an ally, a strategic partner, a
   strategic adversary? what? bush: my hopes are the same as the
   president's hopes about russia. we want russia to be a partner and an
   ally: a partner in peace, a partner in democracy, a country that
   embraces freedom, a country that enhances the security of europe. the
   discussion tomorrow is going to be a broad discussion. it won't focus
   just on defenses, security arrangements. it will focus on a frame of
   mind and an attitude. this is my first meeting with the president, and
   it certainly won't be my last. the purpose of the meeting is to share
   a vision about russia's role in the world and in europe. it is to
   provide assurances to russia that our country doesn't want to diminish
   the nation; we want to help elevate the nation. we'll have a long
   discussion about the role of capital in a society, that if russia
   makes the right choices, she will attract a lot of u.s. capital.
   russia has enormous resources and great potential. this is the first
   of what i hope are many meetings between mr. putin and me -- and many
   discussions. and first and foremost is to develop a trust between us.
   he doesn't know me, and i don't know him very well. but at my press
   conference tomorrow, i'm confident i'll be able to say i've got a
   pretty good feel for the man, and he's got a good feel for me. and
   he'll see that i'm the president of a peace-loving nation, a nation
   that wants russia to succeed and to do well. the definition of the
   relationship will evolve over time, but first and foremost, it has got
   to start with the simple word "friend." question: the first question
   to president kwasniewski, i am intrigued that you used the opportunity
   during your talks with the president. and have you asked the question
   about the missile defense. have you talked also about brussels and
   have you developed that subject? or have you rather concentrated on
   bilateral relations, in the connection with russia and nato and the
   good relations between nato and russia. and of course, in the future
   relations in the world. kwasniewski (through translator): when it
   comes to the missile defense system, following the presentation of
   president bush's opinion in brussels, the case seems very clear: the
   united states wishes to build this system not exclusively safeguarding
   its own interests, but to reinforce a general world security. and the
   united states wants to do some more research and enter dialogue with
   all partners, both in nato as well as with russia and other partners
   about that issue. and i think this is a very rightful and very
   appropriate position, and if we're going to work along these lines, it
   may turn out that the new security systems are not controversial at
   all and that they would not constitute any problems for us, but would
   rather reinforce our feeling of security. it goes beyond any doubt
   that the cold war is over and that today we do not have such enemies
   that we used to have in the past and that it is possible to cooperate
   with every democratically organized state in the world. kwasniewski
   (through translator): we're convinced that if reaching these decisions
   could be -- if these decisions could be achieved through a dialogue
   and a search for opinions in a form of a dialogue, then certainly we
   will achieve mutual understanding, and this is how i understood
   president bush's presentation in brussels, and i think that president
   bush's presentation actually took away all those fears that were
   connected with this position. i think this is a very reasonable, very
   appropriate attitude on the part of the united states of america. star
   wars was an idea that matched the ideological confrontation. today,
   we're talking about global security, and these are completely two
   different animals. bush: i appreciate the president bringing up the
   subject of the meeting that went on in brussels, and he's right. there
   was receptivity to a new way of thinking about the abm treaty, and i
   was very pleased with seeing how forward-leaning many nations were
   during our discussion. there's a lot of leaders who understand that
   the old cold war mentality is not necessary anymore, that it's time to
   set a new strategic framework for the peace of europe and peace for
   the world. and i don't know what the press reports were like, but i
   can assure you inside the meeting there was a receptivity that was
   very warm and for which i was very grateful, and the president just
   reflected that. secondly, poland serves as an example of what's
   possible. one of the reasons i came here was to be with my friend, but
   i also came here to show nations that are hungry for democracy or
   striving for democracy or looking at democracy, what's possible, and
   poland serves as a bridge and an important example. if you believe in
   a europe whole and free and secure, a good place to make that case is
   right here, and so, you bet we talked about poland's important role,
   and it's an incredibly important role. bush: we spent time talking
   about the ukraine as well. poland has played, thanks to the
   president's leadership, a very important role in the ukraine. the
   ukraine is a country in transition, and poland and the united states
   and other nations in europe must work with the ukraine to help ukraine
   make the right decisions and right choices for the future. and those
   decisions are freedom and democracy and open markets, the very same
   values embraced by ukraine's neighbor, poland. and i'm proud of the
   accomplishments of the president and proud of the accomplishments of
   this great people. question: the europeans have never rejected a
   merger between a u.s. and european company, but they're set to reject
   the deal between g.e. and honeywell, the largest merger ever. in your
   talks this week, has your administration raised the issue? and if the
   deal is rejected, what would that do for u.s.-european relations? and
   mr. kwasniewski, how deep is poland's support for the president's
   missile defense deal? and do you have reservations about it? thank
   you. kwasniewski: well, i explain our position in last question, so i
   can repeat. when we will discuss not about md systems in sense of
   american security and some technical concept, but we see it as
   necessary to create effective security system for new world, for
   global world after world war ii and after cold war. so i think we can
   discuss many details, and we can support such concept. i repeat again
   what president bush said in brussels. i understood american approach
   to this question as very open, very full of weeks of dialogue. and md
   in speech and statement of president bush in brussels, it was a
   concept not for the united states. it was a concept for all of us.
   kwasniewski: and a concept which is absolutely different than
   everything that we had during the cold war. that is not the repetition
   of star wars again. that is a new idea how to create a better system
   for security which can be for disposal of all of us, of nato countries
   and all countries, including russia and then china. so i think this
   approach is extremely interesting and it is necessary to continue this
   dialogue. bush: we brought up the proposed merger at the appropriate
   levels during this trip and before the trip. our government looked at
   the merger and approved it. the canadian government looked at the
   merger and approved it. and i am concerned that the europeans have
   rejected it. that's all i've got to say on it. thank you all.
   question: one more question. kwasniewski: ok, last question. question:
   a question to president kwasniewski, would you be so kind as to
   mention what is included in the joint declaration. we received it in
   the english version. is there any polish joke? kwasniewski: this is
   the main mistake of the politician to give a chance for a next
   question. thank you very much for your attention. thank you.