CNN.com - Historic legacy of 'Old Glory' - June 14, 2001
washington -- the first flag day observance in the united states took
   place june 14, 1861, "and it occurred only because the people of
   hartford, connecticut, wished to express their support for the union
   during the opening days of the civil war," according to the american
   book of days. in 1877, on the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the
   banner, congress ordered that the flag be flown over public buildings
   on june 14. the practice grew in the nation's largest cities. in 1916,
   president woodrow wilson issued a proclamation asking the nation to
   observe june 14 as flag day. but official designation did not come
   until august, 3, 1949, when congress agreed to a joint resolution and
   it was approved by president harry truman. the former british colonies
   in america, having rebelled against great britain in 1776, adopted a
   new national flag on june 14, 1777. during the early days of the
   revolutionary war, the rebels fought under the banners of their
   individual colonies or local militias. some americans flew the grand
   union flag -- with 13 alternating red and white stripes and a canton
   bearing the crosses of st. george and st. andrew, which "symbolized
   many americans' hope of eventual reconciliation with britain" --
   according to the book of days, and was used from 1775 until june 14,
   1777. on that date, congress resolved: "that the flag of the thirteen
   united states be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the
   union (canton) be thirteen stars, white in blue field, representing a
   new constellation." philadelphia upholsterer betsy ross, according to
   legend, sewed the first american flag that followed the design
   resolved by congress. the legend dates from a paper ross's grandson
   read to the historical society of pennsylvania in 1870 retelling his
   grandmother's stories about the flag's creations. "the appealing
   vignette of general washington visiting the needlewoman quickly caught
   the popular imagination, and betsy ross's name became linked with the
   banner," the book says. "historians, however, have not been able to
   corroborate canby's [ross's grandson] report; the only provable facts
   about mrs. ross are that she was a patriot upholsterer living in
   philadelphia during the american revolution, and that some time before
   may 1777 she made several pennsylvania naval flags of unknown design."
   with nationhood and the growth of the united states, the flag became
   crowded. a 15-star,15-stripe flag was used from 1795-1818, after two
   more states were added to the original 13. a law fixing the number of
   stripes at 13 and providing for addition of a new star for each new
   state took effect july 4, 1818. source: the american book of days;
   third edition; compiled and edited by jane m. hatch; the h.w. wilson
   company, new york.