CNN.com - Is your PC open to attack? - May 17, 2001
(idg) -- like darth vader's storm troopers in "star wars," pc users with
   cable modem hookups are being drafted as internet zombies for hack
   attacks on commercial web sites.the malicious hackers who plan such
   attacks call the unwitting pc pawns "zombies" because they're
   unconscious accomplices. they seed the pcs in advance with small
   programs that the cybervandals remotely activate later, and they use
   the zombies to launch an attack on another system. the volume of these
   distributed denial-of-service attacks is hard to measure, but they
   seem to be on the rise. they're certainly drawing increased scrutiny
   by computer security consultants, internet service providers, and big
   cable modem companies like excite@home and at&t broadband. in two
   recent attacks, including one last weekend, nearly 500 windows-powered
   pcs with broadband connections were used to shut down a security
   consultant's web site in southern california. "the huge majority [of
   computers used in the attack] are home.com and rr.com accounts," both
   broadband cable services, notes steve gibson, president of gibson
   research corporation, the targeted site. he was able to trace the
   location of some of the zombie-like pcs used in the assault to the
   texas a&m university network. "these typically are [users] who are
   clueless about security. they want to be on the internet, and they are
   home cable modem users." gibson hopes his experience will illuminate
   the problem and the dangers inherent in using broadband connections in
   particular and the internet in general. "there is a serious, not just
   a hypothetical, risk, a consequence, that involves a responsibility
   with a connection to the internet," he says. "yes, it is wonderful.
   yes, there is really cool stuff out there, but there are also people
   without your best interest at heart." the crux of the problem -- and
   the opportunity for malicious hackers -- is that a cable broadband
   connection is "always on." and your conduit out to the internet can be
   a two-way road. "what people don't get is that when you're connected
   to the internet, the internet is connected to you," gibson says. "it's
   a reciprocal relationship." denial-of-service attacks drew attention
   last year when hackers crippled prominent sites like excite@home,
   ebay, and yahoo!. microsoft sustained denial of service attacks
   earlier this year. and even the undernet that supports the internet
   relay chat network experienced attacks just a few months ago. security
   experts recently expressed concern that many systems have recently
   become zombies with the sudden spread of a particular worm. they fear
   that a brief skirmish between chinese and american hackers resulted in
   the seeding of many systems for a later distributed denial-of-service
   attack. if they don't take simple security precautions, cable modem
   users and pc owners with high-speed dsl connections can easily become
   unwitting accomplices to denial of service attacks by hackers who can
   also pilfer personal information like credit card and bank account
   details. "i shudder to think that these people are doing their stock
   portfolios or electronic banking or buying things with credit cards on
   their computer over the internet while their computer security has
   been completely compromised and are completely owned by these
   hackers," gibson says. "these people have something bad in their
   machines and they probably don't even realize it." many companies,
   including excite@home and at&t broadband, provide the first
   precaution. they begin the cable modem installation process by
   disabling the file-sharing program that is on the windows operating
   system of customer computers. "the installation cds that go out with
   our installation technicians automatically disables file and print
   sharing," says scott russell, high-speed data product director at at&t
   broadband. "that puts up a wall so your neighbors can't see into your
   computer." installing a firewall is the next simple, and inexpensive,
   precaution. once a pc is compromised, however, gibson says the only
   sure-fire cure for infection is to reformat the hard drive and
   reinstall windows, an often time-consuming and frustrating experience.
   like at&t, one of the first precautions that excite@home takes in
   installing new service is to disable the windows file-sharing program.
   do-it-yourself installers get the same warning. "we also have an
   information page on our member services section talking about security
   issues," says chris kelly, chief privacy officer for excite@home. "we
   are working on the next generation of offerings that will include
   firewall product recommendations." for web site operators, tools are
   available to spot and stop denial of service attacks. also, at&t
   broadband and excite@home say they monitor network traffic for
   suspicious activity. "we scan the ports where most hacking activities
   or unauthorized access might take place," excite@home's kelly says.
   "we also do regular network monitoring to look for any suspicious
   activity. we are not perfect at it, but we are like a credit card
   company looking for some suspicious activity on the network." security
   issues borne of the proliferation of broadband connections are
   expected to grow, simply because the number of pcs with high-speed
   connections is increasing. and certain jurisdictions are going to feel
   the heat. nearly one in every ten broadband users lives in new york
   city, and 30 percent are clumped in the top five u.s. metropolitan
   centers: new york, los angeles, san francisco, boston, and seattle,
   according to nielsen/netratings, the internet audience measurement
   service. broadband access grew 134 percent in the past year, according
   to nielsen/netratings. its researchers report that nearly 16 million
   users accessed the internet from home last month via cable modem, dsl,
   isdn, or lan, compared with only 6.8 million in april 2000. gartner
   forecasts there will be 17.3 million residential broadband users in
   the united states next year, up from an estimated 11 million users in
   2000. the total is expected to jump to 17.4 million in 2002, increase
   to 23.2 million in 2003, and then climb to nearly 29 million in 2004.