CNN.com - Kashmir cease-fire over, but peace hopes rise - May 23, 2001
new delhi, india -- india ended a six-month military cease-fire against
   islamic guerrillas in kashmir on wednesday, but it also invited
   pakistani military ruler pervez musharraf to peace talks aimed at
   ending five decades of hostility there, indian media reported. india's
   defense minister, jaswant singh, told reporters the cease-fire "is now
   over," the news agency press trust of india said. "these terrorist
   groups have hindered the restoration of peace in jammu and kashmir and
   have inflicted misery upon people of that state. hereafter, security
   forces shall take such action against terrorists as they judge best,"
   pti quoted singh as saying. the independent television station star
   news carried a similar report. "the prime minister has decided to
   invite gen. musharraf to visit india at his earliest convenience,"
   singh said after a one-hour meeting of the indian cabinet's committee
   on security. the united states wednesday applauded india's call for
   talks with pakistan on kashmir, and encouraged the parties to engage
   in a "productive" dialogue to solve the long-standing dispute. "they
   have the opportunity now to make real progress toward the reduction of
   tensions and a resolution of their differences through peaceful
   means," deputy state department spokesman philip reeker said. such
   talks would be the first by government officials from india and
   pakistan since they came close to war while fighting on the kashmir
   border in the summer of 1999. in february 1999, prime minister atal
   bihari vajpayee of india had visited lahore, pakistan, on a peace
   mission, and he and former prime minister nawaz sharif of pakistan had
   signed the lahore declaration, saying they would pursue peace. in
   november 2000, vajpayee began the unilateral cease-fire in kashmir
   during the holy islamic month of ramadan in an attempt to get islamic
   separatists to talk peace after a decade-old rebellion against india
   had left more than 30,000 people dead. but widespread fighting
   continued between indian forces and the guerrillas in jammu-kashmir, a
   state claimed by both countries but controlled by india. india and
   pakistan have fought two wars over kashmir, a territory that was
   divided between them. overall, 1,283 people have been killed in
   indian-controlled kashmir since the truce went into effect at the end
   of november, nearly two-fifths of them civilians, reuters reported.
   the indian government said it had hoped that the cease-fire in kashmir
   would lead to negotiations with separatist groups in the region and
   pakistan, which india says is backing them. the government said the
   cease-fire had been misused by those groups, but added it hopes to
   continue talks with the separatists. "we have already extended the
   cease-fire twice and have suffered a lot of casualties as a result,"
   an indian official told cnn. "it was supposed to produce a dialogue,
   but it has really given carte blanche to the terrorists and our hands
   are really tied." the government of pakistan said it would respond
   positively to an invitation for talks. a pakistani official told cnn
   that the end of the cease-fire was not very significant because "it
   was not much of a cease-fire anyway." "search and seizure for
   militants by the indian army has continued," the official said. "in
   fact we have had more civilians die since the cease-fire has been
   imposed than at any other period." sultan mahmood chaudhry, the prime
   minister of pakistani-controlled kashmir, said talks "will only be
   meaningful if the kashmiris are included." chaudhry said that
   musharraf had offered in the past to meet with the indians to talk
   about issues between the two countries. in january, a thaw seemed to
   begin in india-pakistan relations when musharraf sent planeloads of
   food and relief supplies to the victims of india's worst earthquake in
   50 years in its western gujarat state. pakistan had expressed
   willingness to discuss the kashmir dispute. but india had refused,
   insisting that islamabad first stop aiding islamic militants waging
   the secessionist movement in kashmir since 1989. pakistan denies that
   it gives material aid to the separatist groups based within its
   borders.