CNN.com - Analysts see five technologies as key to future - May 15, 2001
(idg) -- moore's law declares that semiconductors will double in power
   every 18 months. if that's going to hold true, engineers must find
   ways to cram ever more circuits into ever smaller wafers of silicon.
   but current chipmaking technologies are about to hit a wall.to make a
   microchip, technicians shine light through a stencil of the circuit
   pattern. the light travels through lenses, which focus the pattern
   onto a silicon wafer covered with light-sensitive chemicals. when the
   wafer is coated with acid, the desired circuitry emerges from the
   silicon.the problem is that creating smaller circuits requires shorter
   wavelengths of light. current technology uses lightwaves about 240
   nanometers long -- so-called deep ultraviolet light -- to create
   circuits about 100 nanometers wide. (a nanometer is one-billionth of a
   meter.) but smaller wavelengths won't work because they're absorbed by
   conventional lenses; they have trouble simply traveling through
   air.that's where physicists at the lawrence livermore lab in
   california could help. they've been playing with extreme ultraviolet
   light -- with wavelengths from 10 to 100 nanometers -- since the
   reagan administration, as part of their work on the "star wars"
   defense system. in 1997, a consortium including advanced micro
   devices, intel and motorola offered the lab $250 million to figure out
   ways to use euv light in chip manufacturing.the scientists have made
   significant progress. the key: using mirrors instead of lenses. if
   they succeed, circuits could shrink in width to 10 nanometers -- that,
   in turn, could make microprocessors 100 times more powerful than
   today's. the first euv-based chips are expected to hit store shelves
   by 2005.someday, flat panels -- like the screen on your laptop -- will
   be the standard displays for computers, tvs and cell phones. but
   today's most common flat panels -- liquid crystal displays (lcds) --
   are expensive, hard-to-manufacture electricity hogs. that's why
   monitor makers are all a-goggle over organic light-emitting devices,
   known as oleds. originally developed by kodak in the late '70s and
   since refined by a host of companies (including cambridge display
   technology, dupont, ibm, nec, philips and universal display), oleds
   are based on something called electroluminescence. certain organic
   materials emit light when an electric current passes through them.
   sandwich such materials between two electrodes and you've got a
   display. in addition to soaking up less electricity than lcds, oleds
   are easier to manufacture. that simplicity, along with lower materials
   costs, makes them cheaper to build. yet they're brighter than lcds,
   with better color saturation and a wider viewing angle. and because
   they can be quite thin, oleds make all sorts of sci-fi scenarios
   possible. imagine stock quotes scrolling across your pen, or movies
   playing on your handheld. already, pioneer has released a car
   radio-cum-navigation device in japan that uses a 64-by-256-pixel oled
   screen to display traffic conditions. motorola's timeport p8767 phone,
   which debuted in japan in september, sports an oled screen. seiko
   plans to release an oled phone capable of full-color video in
   2002.telecoms are burying thousands of miles of fiber under the
   streets of america, laying the groundwork for the superfast network of
   the future. there's just one problem: the hardware currently used to
   direct the flow of data isn't fast enough to keep up with the traffic
   on all that glass. optical switching could help. optical networks use
   beams of light, rather than electrons, to carry data. today, most of
   these networks use so-called optoelectronic switches to direct network
   traffic. these switches convert incoming light signals into electronic
   form, examine their network addressing, then convert them back to
   optical signals and send them on their way. unfortunately, the
   conversion process is awfully slow. the next generation of devices --
   known as photonic switches, pure optical switches or simply optical
   switches -- eliminate that conversion step, making them fast enough to
   keep up with today's fiber networks. the payoff: faster performance
   and higher network capacity. purely optical switches do have their
   drawbacks: because they rely on a series of microscopic mechanical
   mirrors to do their work, they may not be as reliable as the old
   optoelectronic variety. still, expect these optical switches, from
   vendors including calient, cisco, nortel and tellium, to be deployed
   at critical intersections on the net later this year. going online is
   like walking into a dark room. nobody knows you're there except you
   and the doorman (which in this case is your isp). but if something
   called presence technology -- which detects when you're online and
   what kind of device you're using -- catches on, it'll be like turning
   on the lights. presence technology has its roots in instant messaging.
   log on to an im service and your arrival is immediately announced to
   your "buddy list" -- other registered users you've selected to be
   alerted to your online presence. internet engineers are working on
   ways to extend this announcement process beyond messaging, so that
   every time you log onto the net, regardless of the device you're
   using, your presence will be felt. telephony geeks are particularly
   enthused: placing phone calls over the net would make a lot more sense
   if you knew the other person was online.microsoft is among those
   banking on presence technology. its new hailstorm services platform
   depends on it. when someone tries to get in touch with you, the
   hailstorm system will detect your network location and level of
   accessibility: are you at your desk? in a meeting? in transit?
   depending upon the answer, the system will e-mail, page or call
   you.before that can happen, technologists must solve the
   interoperability issue. just as america online im users can't
   communicate with people on other services, there's no universal way to
   announce someone's presence on the net. (aol time warner is the parent
   company of cnn.com.) the internet engineering task force (an ad-hoc
   group that helps keep the net humming) has a working group cogitating
   on the problem. but the ietf process of turning a draft specification
   into an established protocol can take years. microsoft waits for no
   one: as the company rolls out hailstorm over the next couple of years,
   look for presence technology to start insinuating itself into your
   online life.no, it's not an oxymoron. touted by ibm, microsoft, oracle
   and other titans of corporate computing, business intelligence is the
   fad du jour in the database biz. the idea is simple: consolidate the
   gigantic quantity of raw data that today's typical enterprise
   generates, in all its various guises, into information that people --
   middle managers as well as database technicians -- can access,
   understand and act upon.business intelligence is the latest step in
   the evolutionary development of corporate data tools. a couple of
   years ago, everybody talked about "data mining" and "knowledge
   management." both entailed extracting useful nuggets of information --
   about customers, sales trends, manufacturing, whatever -- out of piles
   of corporate data. today's business intelligence systems improve on
   these predecessors by presenting their findings in more useful formats
   -- using advanced data visualization tools -- and by deploying
   artificial intelligence to look for patterns human users might not
   look for. a bookseller, for example, might use traditional data tools
   to find out which kinds of books sell best on weekends (and adjust her
   sunday book section ad strategy accordingly). but business
   intelligence software might show her a wholly unexpected correlation
   between, say, her advertisement for the oprah winfrey opus and sales
   of fishing guidebooks.business-intelligence technology has already
   spawned some fierce competition. established software companies like
   computer associates, ibm, informix, microsoft, oracle and sap, along
   with younger competitors like business objects, cognos, microstrategy
   and moreover.com, are vying for their share of a market that's
   expected to grow from $3.5 billion this year to $8.8 billion in