CNN.com - U.S. trip to China latest bid for shield support - May 13, 2001
beijing, china -- a senior u.s. diplomat is due in beijing to explain
   america's missile defense plans to china, one of the world's most
   strident opponents. u.s. assistant secretary of state james kelly is
   due to arrive monday, one of three delegations of u.s. envoys who have
   fanned out across the globe seeking support for the missile shield.
   president george w. bush has proposed a new shield system designed to
   thwart missile attacks by so-called "rogue states" such as north korea
   and iraq. but kelly, who is expected to talk about taiwan and other
   issues in the troubled u.s.-china relationship, will get little more
   than a polite hearing on the missile shield plan, a leading chinese
   security scholar has predicted. "china's stand is very firm: we will
   not support the u.s. plan to build a national missile defence system
   or a theatre missile defence system," said yan xuetong, executive
   director of the institute of international studies at tsinghua
   university. "i think (kelly) knows he cannot expect cooperation from
   china on this," he said. china is strongly opposed to the missile
   shield plan, which could erode the effectiveness of its nuclear
   arsenal and may cover taiwan, which beijing regards as a renegade
   province that must be reunited with the mainland. kelly's trip to
   beijing follows jaunts by u.s. envoys to india, pakistan and australia
   to speak about the proposed plan. chinese spokeswoman zhang qiyue told
   reporters in pakistan she thought many nations visited by the envoys
   shared china's skepticism about the plan. "i believe that everywhere
   the delegations go there are many questions raised and, as far as i
   can see, there are more questions than answers," zhang said. zhang,
   traveling in islamabad with premier zhu rongji, spoke after pakistani
   military ruler pervez musharraf was quoted by the official app news
   agency as opposing the missile shield. india has praised bush's vision
   of nuclear disarmament but stopped short of endorsing his missile
   program during a visit to new delhi by u.s. deputy secretary of state
   richard armitage. and australia's foreign affairs minister alexander
   downer has said he believes the u.s. defense system would go ahead
   with broad international support, despite misgivings expressed by a
   range of nations, including russia, china, germany and france. "it
   will proceed," he told reporters after meeting with kelly. "the more
   people understand what is being talked about here, the more they think
   it makes sense," he said. kelly, on his first trip to asia in his new
   job, said at his confirmation hearing last month the "sino-u.s.
   relationship features few blacks and whites, and a considerable range
   of gray." he described a key u.s. challenge as handling contradictions
   in a china that embraces globalism while encouraging intense
   nationalism. u.s. difficulties with beijing during the spy plane
   standoff "show very clearly that there are troubling aspects to our
   very complex relationship with china," kelly said. china has rebuffed
   u.s. requests to be allowed to fly out its ep-3 spy plane that has
   been grounded on hainan island since an april 1 mid-air collision with
   a chinese fighter. china detained the spy plane's 24 crew members for
   11 days, releasing them after the bush administration said it was
   "very sorry" for the loss of the chinese pilot and for the u.s.
   plane's landing in china without permission. ties are also strained by
   china's detention of four chinese-american academics and over bush's
   decision to sell taiwan a hefty package of advanced weapons and his
   recent vow to do "whatever it took" to defend taiwan if china were to
   attack.