CNN.com - China unchanged over missile defense - May 15, 2001
hong kong, china (cnn) -- china says nothing will change its mind on
   washington's proposed missile defense shield even as u.s. envoy james
   kelly is involved in talks with chinese foreign ministry officials in
   beijing tuesday on the matter. beijing has repeatedly stated its
   objections to u.s. plans for a national missile defense (nmd) system,
   saying it would destabilize security in asia, and lead to an arms
   race, but kelly says he hopes to ease china's concerns during his
   visit. kelly, the u.s. assistant secretary of state for east asian and
   pacific affairs, arrived in china as part of an extensive global charm
   offensive to drum up international support for its defense proposal.
   he is expected to try to persuade chinese government officials not to
   oppose u.s. plans to build the defense system. "i've come today to
   conduct a dialogue with chinese officials on security and stability
   that reflects today's world," he told reporters prior to the talks.
   "my trip is part of president bush's initiative to consult with our
   friends and allies and other interested states." talks with chinese
   officials are expected to last only one day, before kelly flies to
   vietnam to continue briefing other nations on the defense proposal.
   the united states has said it needs the missile defense system to
   protect itself from "rogue" nations such as north korea. kelly says
   there are four major parts to the defense proposal, which include
   non-proliferation, counter proliferation, missile defense and
   unilateral reductions in the united state's strategic forces. kelly
   said earlier that news reports from china "suggest that they really
   don't understand" the nmd plan. he said he hopes he can begin a
   constructive dialogue with chinese authorities not only on the
   proposal but also on curbing weapons of mass destruction. "china
   clearly shares with us an interest in promoting peace and stability in
   east asia and the world and curbing the threat posed by weapons of
   mass destruction is a key element in the maintenance of peace and
   security," said kelly, who then got into the rear seat of a black
   sedan and headed off toward the foreign ministry although kelly said
   he expects to speak with china's vice foreign minister li zhaoxing on
   the issue, much of his intended diplomatic audience is expected to be
   in shanghai attending functions with visiting russian president
   vladimir putin. officials would not say with whom he was scheduled to
   meet. kelly's task on selling beijing the idea has been made more
   difficult by the straining of u.s. china relations over the past
   months since the april 1 fatal collision of a u.s. spy plane and a
   chinese fighter jet. the collision killed the chinese pilot and led to
   an 11-day detention of the u.s. crew and a flurry of diplomatic
   activity. although kelly says it is "unfortunate" the incident took
   place, he said he is not visiting china to discuss the collision,
   rather to focus on the nmd plan. u.s-china analysts say it is unlikely
   that beijing and washington will gain any common ground in discussions
   on the plan and instead see the visit as healthy in strengthening ties
   between the two nations. "i think in the future, both countries on
   this issue have a long way to go. i think it is very difficult for
   them to get any consensus at this time," professor wu guoguang from
   the chinese university of hong kong told cnn. "the importance of this
   trip is washington resuming dialogue with beijing and it shows that
   beijing is also keen to resume high ranking dialogue with washington,"
   he said. wu also added that china would be delighted with washington
   consulting beijing to seek international support and approval for the
   anti-missile plan. china is among several nations, including russia,
   that have voiced their disapproval to the nmd proposal. china argues
   the system is offensive rather than defensive because it eliminates
   any inter-continental threat china can pose the u.s. also central to
   china's concerns is the proposal to include taiwan in the defense
   shield. beijing regards taiwan as a renegade province. analysts say
   china's capability of retaliating against the united states if the
   u.s. is involved in any conflict involving taiwan will be destroyed,
   leaving the u.s. free to intervene in any china-taiwan confrontations.
   "i expect china's direct goal will be to exclude taiwan from the
   plan," said wu. "if they can do that, it would be valued as a big
   success but i personally don't think they will be able to do that." "i
   think that washington doesn't care what type of response it gets from
   beijing about nmd as china has no powerful means against it." wu said
   it was likely that china will delay any official response to the
   missile defense, preferring to wait for responses from europe and
   other asian countries. china will also look to the response of russia
   and discussions with putin and chinese officials are expected to touch
   on the matter. the next stop on kelly's agenda is vietnam where he is
   expected to arrive on wednesday.

   cnn beijing bureau chief rebecca mackinnon contributed to this