CNN.com - U.S. says China unclear on missile system - May 14, 2001
singapore (cnn) -- a senior u.s. official meeting with beijing about the
   u.s. missile defense system says china does not completely understand
   washington's plans. u.s. assistant secretary of state for east asian
   and pacific affairs, james kelly, arrived in china late monday for
   talks to be held tuesday with chinese officials about the defense
   system -- which china has strongly opposed. "part of the dialogue we
   will be having with china will be to allay the concerns they've
   expressed about something much grander than we have in mind," kelly
   told reporters in singapore after meeting with officials in the
   city-state. kelly said news reports from china "suggest that they
   really don't understand" the national missile defense (nmd) plan.
   although kelly said he expects to speak with china's vice foreign
   minister li zhaoxing on the issue, much of his intended diplomatic
   audience is expected to be in shanghai attending to functions with
   visiting russian president vladimir putin. if that's not enough,
   kelly's task on selling beijing the idea has been made more difficult
   by the straining of u.s. china relations over the past months since
   the april 1 fatal collision of a u.s. spy plane and a chinese fighter
   jet. the collision killed the chinese pilot and led to a 11-day
   detention of the u.s. air crew and a flurry of diplomatic activity.
   although kelly says it is "unfortunate" the incident took place, he
   said he is not visiting china to discuss the collision, rather to
   focus on the nmd plan. kelly is part of a global charm offensive to
   drum up international support for its defense proposal and coincides
   with other diplomatic visits to asian and european countries. a
   statement from singapore prime minster goh chok tong office said he
   and kelly met earlier on was briefed on the proposed u.s. missile
   defense. there were no further comments on the issue. u.s-china
   relations analysts say it is unlikely that beijing and washington will
   gain any common ground in discussions on the plan and instead see the
   visit as healthy in strengthening ties between the two nations. "i
   think in the future, both countries on this issue have a long way to
   go. i think it is very difficult for them to get any consensus at this
   time," professor wu guoguang from the chinese university of hong kong
   told cnn. "the importance of this trip is washington resuming dialogue
   with beijing and it shows that beijing is also keen to resume high
   ranking dialogue with washington," he said. wu also added that beijing
   would be delighted with washington not taking the strategy of
   bypassing beijing while seeking international support and approval for
   the anti-missile plan. china is among several nations, including
   russia, that have voiced their disapproval to the nmd proposal. china
   argues that the system is offensive rather than defensive because it
   eliminates any inter-continental threat china can pose the u.s. also
   central to china's concerns is the proposal to include taiwan in the
   defense shield. analysts say china's capability of retaliating against
   the united states if the u.s. is involved in any conflict involving
   taiwan will be destroyed, leaving the u.s. free to intervene in any
   china-taiwan confrontations. "i expect china's direct goal will be to
   exclude taiwan from the plan," said wu. "if they can do that, it would
   be valued as a big success but i personally don't think they will be
   able to do that." "i think that washington doesn't care what type of
   response it gets from beijing about nmd as china has no powerful means
   against it." wu said it was likely that china will delay any official
   response to the missile defense, preferring to wait for responses from
   europe and other asian countries. china will also look to the response
   of russia and discussions with putin and chinese officials are
   expected to touch on the matter. the next stop on kelly's agenda is
   vietnam where he is expected to arrive on wednesday.