CNN.com - McGregor: 'Phantom Menace' was flat - April  8, 2002
london, england -- ewan mcgregor has admitted the last "star wars: film
   -- in which he played a leading role -- disappointed him, and says he
   expects more from the next. mcgregor, 31, who played the jedi knight
   obi-wan kenobi, referred to "star wars: episode 1 -- the phantom
   menace" as "kind of flat," in an interview released on monday by uk
   film company filmfour. "one of the things about episode 1 i was
   slightly disappointed by was, i thought it was ... kind of flat," he
   said. the actor, who also plays obi-wan kenobi in the next film "star
   wars: episode ii -- attack of the clones," which opens in the uk next
   month, said fans could expect a return to the style of the first three
   films. "i think there is much more humour and there is much more
   colour in episode ii," he said in the interview meant to publicise a
   season of british films on the pay-tv channel. the "star wars" series
   attracted millions of fans worldwide when it was launched in 1977 by
   director george lucas as an intergalactic tale of good battling evil.
   "the phantom menace" broke box office records in 1999 when it opened
   amid huge hype more than 15 years after the success of the first three
   "star wars" films, but many critics slated it. the guardian's film
   critic peter bradshaw called the film "extraordinarily objectionable"
   and said "nothing has the right to bore and disappoint us this much."
   kenneth turan of the los angles times called it a "considerable
   letdown" while the london evening standard's alexander walker
   dismissed the story as "infantile." the "star wars" team will be
   hoping for better reviews when "attack of the clones" opens in the
   u.s. and uk on may 16. mcgregor, star of "moulin rouge" and "black
   hawk down," has become one of britain's highest-paid stars since he
   found fame in the 1994 film "shallow grave" and as a heroin addict in
   "trainspotting" in 1996.