CNN.com - Defense rationale not shared by Beijing - May 14, 2001
hong kong, china (cnn) -- chinese officials are set to rebuff the
   rationale to be offered by visiting u.s. assistant secretary of state
   james kelly for building a multi-billion dollar missile defense
   system. however, diplomatic analysts said some progress might be made
   regarding other topics that kelly, who arrives in beijing on monday
   night, will raise with his hosts. these include the return of the u.s.
   ep-3 spy plane, still held in an airbase on hainan island. an asian
   diplomat in beijing said chinese cadres had made it clear that in the
   chinese context, washington's planned national missile defense (nmd)
   system was an offensive system because it would neutralize china's
   inter-continental ballistic missile threat to the u.s. "chinese
   officials have indicated that particularly after nato's airstrikes on
   kosovo in 1999, beijing fears a surprise missile attack by the u.s.,"
   the diplomat said. "the officials said the possibility for such an
   attack will be raised after washington has completed an nmd, as the
   latter will render china's icbms ineffective and eliminate the
   possibility of a chinese counter-strike." during kelly's visit,
   beijing is also expected to vehemently oppose proposals by
   "pro-taiwan" elements in the u.s., including members of congress, to
   include the island in an asian-wide anti-missile system. chinese
   diplomats have already protested against washington's decision to
   allow taiwan president chen shui-bian to transit through the u.s. on a
   forthcoming visit to south america. a source close to the chinese
   diplomatic establishment said beijing was eager to put an end to the
   spy plane episode by coming to an agreement with the u.s. on how to
   send the damaged plane back. "despite the on-going difficulties, the
   chinese leadership wants to send a positive message to washington
   about improvement of ties," the source said. "president jiang [zemin]
   has already asked his advisers to start preparing for the mini-summit
   with bush in october." at the same time, however, beijing is pushing
   ahead with plans to counter what it perceives to be bush's "anti-china
   containment policy" by boosting ties with key neighbors and
   quasi-allies. jiang and senior military officers are finalizing
   details on the next stage of defense cooperation with russia. further
   imports of russian weapons and technology will be discussed when jiang
   visits moscow in july. during his just-finished visit to pakistan,
   premier zhu rongji consolidated china's all-round cooperation with its
   ally, including military cooperation. zhu and his hosts reportedly
   came to an agreement on the co-production of chinese-made jetfighters
   on pakistani soil. it is understood that hardline generals and cadres
   in beijing had suggested to jiang that should the bush administration
   press ahead with arming taiwan with sophisticated weapons, china would
   scale down cooperation with washington on the non-proliferation of
   weapons. in the past two years, beijing has vowed to freeze its export
   of missiles and nuclear-related technology to pakistan and iran.