CNN.com - Bush hitches wagon to falling star wars - May  2, 2001
washington (tribune media services) -- it's a good thing politicians
   can't get arrested for making false promises. george w. bush would be
   cooling his heels in jail. campaigning for president, he promised to
   bring new ideas to washington. where are they? we haven't seen one
   yet. instead, all we've seen from dubya are recycled old ones. old,
   and bad. school vouchers, his proposal for reforming public schools,
   have already been considered -- and rejected -- by several states.
   nuclear power plants, his answer to the energy crisis, were shelved
   over 20 years ago because of concerns over safety and disposal of
   nuclear waste. and now comes his most worn and tired idea of all:
   missile defense, a hare-brained scheme that should have been retired
   with ronald reagan. it was reagan who first proposed a missile defense
   system -- immediately dubbed "star wars" by skeptical reporters -- in
   a march 23, 1983 speech from the oval office. however, as frances
   fitzgerald reveals in her brilliant history "way out there in the
   blue," reagan didn't get his plan from the scientists or the generals.
   the pentagon wasn't even notified of his speech ahead of time. reagan
   stole star wars directly from -- the movies! in 1940, appearing in the
   warner brothers thriller "murder in the air," reagan played an
   american secret agent charged with protecting a super weapon that
   could strike all enemy planes from the air. seed planted in reagan's
   brain. then in 1966, alfred hitchcock released a reagan favorite,
   "torn curtain," in which american agent paul newman works on
   developing an anti-missile missile. in words that must have made
   ronnie tingle, newman's character asserts: "we will produce a
   defensive weapon that will make all nuclear weapons obsolete, and
   thereby abolish the terror of nuclear warfare." sound familiar? reagan
   used almost the exact words in selling missile defense from the
   office, 17 years later. there are good reasons for putting star wars
   on the big screen. there are better reasons for rejecting it in real
   life. for starters, it doesn't work. since 1984, according to the
   congressional research service, the united states has spent $140.1
   billion testing various systems of missile defense, all trying to hit
   an incoming missile with an outgoing missile. none of those tests have
   proven successful. the last series of tests, in 1999, produced six
   straight near-misses. now bush wants to spend another $60 billion,
   chasing the same rabbit. when are we going to stop throwing good money
   after bad? even if the technology did work, it may not be needed. only
   russia and china today hold missiles capable of reaching the united
   states. russia is dismantling its nukes, and is no longer the enemy.
   china has only 32 missiles, compared to 982 for the united states.
   they wouldn't dare lob a missile our way, because they know china
   would be a parking lot before it even landed. besides, they'd rather
   sell us vcrs. reflecting our new, sole superpower status, bush argues
   that the real threat today is not from china or russia, it's from
   so-called rogue nations like iran, iraq and north korea. again, the
   difference in fire power between us and them -- north korea, for
   example, spends $5.4 billion a year on defense; the united states,
   $300 billion -- makes that argument seem ridiculous. but, more
   importantly, if some hostile power did decide to attack american soil
   today, they wouldn't send a bomb by nuclear missile. they'd send it by
   briefcase or ryder truck. the real threat from rogue nations is
   terrorism, against which star wars offers zero protection. and then,
   of course, there is this other sticky little problem: we should think
   twice about charging ahead with building a missile defense system
   because we promised the world not to. george bush seems determined to
   prove himself another ronald reagan. on foreign policy and defense,
   he'd be smarter to try to become another richard nixon. it was
   republican richard nixon in 1972 who signed the abm treaty with the
   then-soviet union, in which both superpowers agreed to abandon plans
   for missile defense and concentrate on shrinking their arsenal of
   nuclear weapons, instead. there followed a series of arms reduction
   treaties, all with the same goal of arms reduction -- a strategy that
   has worked for 39 years, under six presidents, republican and
   democrat. why suddenly reverse course? and, if we break this treaty,
   why should anyone trust us to uphold another one? president bush is
   wrong. missile defense is no new idea. it is recycled nonsense. it
   belongs where ronald reagan first found it: in hollywood fantasyland.