CNN.com - U.S. envoys begin hard sell of missile shield - May  8, 2001
tokyo, japan -- u.s. envoys have embarked a tour of asia to brief
   regional allies and other key nations, including china and india, on
   its plans to build a controversial global missile defense system.
   deputy secretary of state richard armitage and assistant secretary of
   state for east asia jim kelly are in tokyo meeting a number of
   high-ranking officials, including chief cabinet secretary yasuo
   fukuda. their mission is to sell the concept of a global missile
   shield as outlined by u.s. president george w. bush in a speech last
   week. the system, bush said, would be operated and maintained with the
   assistance of u.s. allies around the world. "the purpose of the visit
   is first to brief allies and then explain to other key nations, such
   as india and china, the details of the (missile shield) policy," said
   a spokesman for the u.s. embassy in tokyo. "it's not by any means a
   completed project. it's not something that we're announcing to the
   allies, it's very much a consultation with other countries and an
   explanation of views." despite rocky relations between washington and
   beijing, the spokesman said it was important to brief chinese
   officials and gauge their interest in the project. china, russia and
   north korea have all raised concerns about the missile shield, with
   beijing warning the system might spark a fresh arms race with the u.s.
   the visit by armitage and kelly, as well as other key diplomats, will
   cover japan, south korea, china, india, singapore and australia. the
   united states is seeking support for its controversial missile shield,
   which drew praise from some nations and criticism from others on
   wednesday. australian foreign minister alexander downer on tuesday
   gave his government's strongest endorsement yet of the missile defence
   shield, boasting that opponents were now coming around to australia's
   viewpoint. seoul has remained neutral on the idea, and bush is said to
   have called south korean president kim dae-jung for about 15 minutes
   last week after making public his push for the missile shield. during
   the call, bush reportedly confirmed he would visit south korea in
   october and discussed the u.s. plan for a missile shield with kim,
   said south korean presidential spokesman park joon-young. kim said he
   hoped u.s. efforts to negotiate with other countries, including its
   allies on the national missile defense (nmd) would contribute to
   international peace and stability. bush has also called for replacing
   the 30-year-old anti-ballistic missile treaty with russia to allow the
   deployment of the missile defense system, which is strongly opposed by
   moscow and beijing, and a reduction of the u.s. nuclear weapon
   stockpile. armitage and kelly will remain in tokyo until wednesday
   morning, then travel to seoul for meetings until thursday. kelly will
   then spend two days in australia and make a brief visit to singapore,
   then return to washington. armitage will visit india on may 11 before
   heading home. the united states says it needs a missile shield because
   of a growing threat from rogue states such as north korea. australia
   has given important backing to the us plans at a time when most allies
   have expressed concerns that it could destabilise the world's
   strategic balance. downer, in washington for two days of meetings with
   top cabinet members and business leaders, said he had discussed the
   missile shield with u.s. vice-president dick cheney and national
   security adviser condoleezza rice. he said he had emphasised
   australia's concerns about the proliferation of missiles. "a missile
   defence system is not going to kill anyone, missiles will. that's why
   we're very understanding of their (america's) position," downer said.
   but australia's federal opposition leader, kim beazley, says he
   believes any role australia would have in the united states' plans for
   a national missile defence system would be minimal. beazley says the
   plans for the system are not concrete and have only been described in
   terms of general principles. he says labor refused to support the
   original star wars missile defence system. beazley says if the united
   states proceeds with the plan, it will set aside an important treaty
   and could generate an arms build up in the region, which would not be
   comfortable for australia.