CNN.com - 'Defense Inc.' nominees face confirmation Thursday - May  9, 2001
washington (cnn) -- president bush's nominees to lead the u.s. armed
   forces face senate confirmation hearings thursday, with pentagon
   officials expecting a new corporate-style approach to defense. the
   three civilians -- thomas white, nominated to be secretary of the
   army; gordon england, nominated to be secretary of the navy; and james
   roche, nominated to be secretary of the air force -- are expected to
   help lead a pentagon review under way by defense secretary donald
   rumsfeld. all are corporate executives recruited by rumsfeld to
   underscore his "corporate management approach," something dubbed
   "defense inc." by pentagon insiders. white, england and roche are
   scheduled to appear at a single hearing before the senate armed
   services committee in what pentagon officials say is a unique
   confirmation hearing. "the fact that all three service secretary
   nominees will appear at one confirmation hearing together is symbolic
   of the fact they were picked as a team, not as individuals," said one
   pentagon official. pentagon sources said the three service
   secretaries, along with several other senior civilians, would comprise
   a sort of "executive committee" led deputy defense secretary paul
   wolfowitz as part of the pentagon review bush ordered in february.
   pentagon officials told cnn on monday that rumsfeld is scheduled to
   discuss military strategy and the ongoing defense review with bush
   this week, and bush was expected to address the subject in broad terms
   in a speech to graduates at the u.s. naval academy in annapolis on may
   25. on tuesday, rumsfeld ordered that responsibility for military
   satellites and other military space programs be consolidated under the
   command of a four-star air force general. and he said he is reviewing
   whether to change the readiness standard calling for a u.s. military
   that can fight two wars at once. the strategy has been a mainstay of
   u.s. defense planning for more than a decade, and the pentagon
   emphasized that no decision has yet been made.