CNN.com - China ready for U.S. missile defense talks - May 10, 2001
beijing, china -- china says it is ready to hold talks on a plan by the
   united states to develop a new missile defense system. although china
   remains "firmly opposed" to the plan, foreign ministry spokesman sun
   yuxi said thursday it would welcome a u.s. negotiating team. "if the
   u.s. side is willing to send an envoy here, we are willing to have
   consultations," sun said. the u.s. state department announced last
   week that a mission led by assistant secretary of state james kelly
   would visit china on may 14 and 15, as part of consultations on the
   bush administration's national missile defense plan. the kelly trip to
   china follows visits by u.s. deputy secretary of state richard
   armitage to japan and south korea this week to explain the plan and a
   similar u.s. charm offensive in europe. china believes the u.s. plan
   nullifies the anti-ballistic missile (abm) treaty -- a central cold
   war-era treaty barring such defenses. "as we have stated many times,
   we are firmly opposed to this," sun said. "we hope the u.s. will
   proceed cautiously and continue to abide by the abm." such a defense
   system would erode the effectiveness of china's nuclear force and
   cover taiwan, which beijing regards as a renegade province. china has
   not ruled out the use of force to reunite taiwan with the mainland.
   such fears were heightened last month when u.s. president george w.
   bush said he would do "whatever it took" to protect taiwan. bush's
   statement departed from years of ambiguity over whether u.s. forces
   would help defend taiwan if it were attacked by the mainland. bush has
   laid out a vision of 21st-century security based on smaller offensive
   nuclear arsenals and defenses capable of intercepting missiles fired
   by so-called "rogue states" such as north korea or iraq. washington is
   also considering a so-called theatre missile defense plan to protect
   allies, like japan, and its own troops in northeast asia. sun also
   repeated china's refusal to allow the united states to fly out its
   ep-3 spy plane which has been grounded on hainan island since an april
   1 mid-air collision with a chinese fighter. "we've already clearly
   stated our position during previous discussions that it is impossible
   to let the spy plane fly back," sun said. "this does not mean that we
   will not return it, so the next step in this process will depend on
   the u.s," he said without elaborating. the united states insists the
   plane be allowed to fly home, following a technical inspection by its
   makers. but china predicts worsening public outrage if the spy plane
   is returned, after the death of the chinese fighter pilot and the
   release of the spy plane's 24 crew members from detention. sun said
   beijing would also "continue to protest" against the u.s. resumption
   of surveillance flights near china early this week.