CNN.com - U.S. missile plan 'no threat to China' - May 11, 2001
hong kong, china -- the united states government is trying to assure a
   skeptical china that the bush administration's plan for a missile
   defense shield is not a threat to beijing . u.s. deputy secretary of
   state richard armitage stressed that the opposite was true, with
   consultations planned with the chinese over the plan. "we believe if
   we have a limited -- limited -- defense against a handful of missiles,
   that in no way eliminates china's strategic deterrent, so it is not a
   threat to china," he said. "we have no desire to keep china down.
   right now they are a great country, not a great power. but they are a
   great country with great problems." china says it is ready to hold
   talks on a plan by the u.s. to develop a new missile defense system.
   although china remains "firmly opposed" to the plan, foreign ministry
   spokesman sun yuxi said thursday it would welcome a u.s. negotiating
   team. "if the u.s. side is willing to send an envoy here, we are
   willing to have consultations," sun said. the u.s. state department
   announced last week that a mission led by assistant secretary of state
   james kelly would visit china on may 14 and 15, as part of
   consultations on the bush administration's national missile defense
   plan. in korea's joongang ilbo daily newspaper he is quoted as saying
   if the technology is successful it could be offered to allies to
   ensure stability. "we think if we are successful and have sufficient
   technology to stop a limited number of missiles, then we can offer
   countries who might be faced by rogue states who purchase or
   manufacture missiles an alternative to making their own missiles."
   armitage is on an asian tour to explain the bush administration's
   strategic game plan, featuring unilateral nuclear missile cuts and a
   missile interceptor system that is still on the drawing board and
   could cost tens of billions of dollars. armitage said north korean
   leader kim jong-il's offer to maintain a moratorium on missile testing
   until 2003 was a positive message to washington. "we thought it was a
   message to us and to others and we took positive note of it," he said.
   "the united states is not trying to change or overthrow the communist
   totalitarian regime in north korea." "as long as north korea is not
   exporting terrorism and is not threatening our ally, we are keen to
   leave north korea alone. we do not want her proliferating weapons of
   mass destruction to anyone, most particularly to states we consider to
   be in the so-called rogue category." north korea stunned the region in
   august 1998 by test-firing a missile that soared over japan and into
   the pacific. the u.s. -- which says north korea is the world's leading
   exporter of ballistic missiles and related technology believes
   pyongyang was preparing a longer range edition of its taepodong
   missile, capable of reaching american shores. north korea in 1999
   agreed to suspend further missile tests while it was in talks on
   improving ties with washington. this week, u.s. president george w.
   bush dispatched emissaries to asia and europe to consult with allied
   and other interested governments about his missile defense plans. the
   conservative coalition government of john howard has already stated
   its support in principle for the shield plan, saying it "understands"
   the u.s. desire to combat missile threats from so-called "rogue"
   nations. the australian government said thursday that it accepted the
   u.s. argument that the "strategic environment had changed". the
   jointly run pine gap space intelligence research base in central
   australia could play a role in any future satellite defense systems
   the u.s. may develop. the u.s. delegation will also meet friday with
   australian opposition labor party leader kim beazley. the labor party
   is opposed to the shield plan saying such a move could provoke a new
   arms race. while the bush administration is trying to win support
   overseas it is facing increased scrutiny back home. a leading
   democratic senator called thursday for a national debate on bush's
   proposed missile defense shield, saying the shift in the country's
   strategic doctrine could affect american life "for decades to come".
   senator joseph biden of delaware, the senior democrat on the foreign
   relations committee, said many americans were unaware of the specifics
   of the missile defense debate but very "pragmatic" when presented with
   the various arguments. "the american people must have a say in
   decisions that will affect their well-being for decades to come,"
   biden said in a speech to the world affairs council of washington.
   biden said similar consultations should engage the u.s. public. "the
   american public must become engaged on this issue," biden said. "there
   is still time to master its implications, but not much time". biden
   described bush's proposal, outlined a week ago, to scrap the cold
   war-era arms control regime and deploy extensive missile defenses to
   guard against the threat posed by countries such as north korea,iraq
   or iran, as "a massive shift in policy". biden also cited fears that
   building a missile shield could spark a new arms race, if not with
   russia then with china. chinese reaction could lead india and then
   pakistan to increase their nuclear stockpiles, and could even persuade
   taiwan to develop nuclear weapons, biden said.