CNN.com - Russian scientist accused of treason - April 18, 2001
moscow, russia -- a russian space expert has controversially been
   charged with spying for china despite efforts by colleagues and the
   media to prove his innocence. valentin danilov, an academic who heads
   the thermo-physics department at the kranoyarsk state technical
   university in serbia, specialises in solar activity and satellites.
   his work could be deemed as sensitive because of possible links with
   the development of anti-satellite weapons. the former soviet kgb
   secret service, the fsb, charged danilov with treason on wednesday and
   expects him to stand trial later this year, spokeswoman stella
   alexeyeva said. he is accused of selling research materials to a
   chinese import-export company. interfax news agency reported that the
   fsb had said danilov attempted to sell a scientific method used to
   predict the electromagnetic environment around satellites. but the
   itar-tass news agency reported that danilov had not sold the
   information to the chinese, but had been simply asked to create a
   scientific exhibit depicting his research. colleagues have written an
   open letter to prosecutors demanding that danilov be released. his
   lawyers say he did not violate russian laws as he only provided
   information already published in open scientific journals, russian
   television said. fellow researchers said danilov's work had only been
   secret until 1992, when its security status was lifted. "there is
   really nothing secret about the work. virtually all his research has
   long been in the public domain," a colleague said. "a mistake is being
   made here." "this is star wars stuffÖbut anyone with experience in the
   field could have put together what he was doing," said the man, who
   wished to remain anonymous. danilov, who has spent 20 years at the
   institute, is currently being held in a siberian jail, and faces a
   possible prison term of between 12 years to 20 years if convicted of
   espionage, the krasnoyarsk fsb spokeswoman added. he has been under
   investigation since may last year. danilov is the latest scientist to
   fall foul of the fsb in the most recent of a spate of spy scandals to
   have hit russia. igor sutyagin, an arms expert at russia's respected
   u.s.-canada institute, is still on trial on charges of passing secrets
   about russian nuclear submarines to the united states and britain.
   military researchers in russia say they run a daily risk of being
   accused of espionage because the guidelines regulating their work are
   so vague.