CNN.com - McConnell: Campaign finance fight 'not over' - April 2, 2001
washington (cnn) -- though the senate fight regarding big money in
   politics should end today, the battle continues for the two high-power
   protagonists. "it's not over yet," said sen. mitch mcconnell,
   r-kentucky. "it's over in the senate, but this is a bill that's
   fraught with all kinds of constitutional problems and if it becomes
   law, i'm taking it to court." sen. john mccain, who has long
   championed campaign finance reform, vows to fight that battle when it
   comes, but first things first: after today's expected vote in the
   senate he's focused on the upcoming fight in the house of
   representatives. "it's been through the house twice by overwhelming
   majority, so i think we can do it," said mccain, an arizona
   republican. "i do not underestimate that the closer we get to passage
   the greater the opposition will be," he said. "but it's still a long
   way from us having a bill on the president's desk." for the two men,
   the battle continues because it has become a personal crusade.
   mcconnell says he's just trying to protect the first amendment. mccain
   says he's trying restore public trust in politics. the last time they
   faced of in the senate, it got personal, with mccain standing to read
   aloud the webster's definition of corruption. that rankled mcconnell.
   "i take offense to what the senator from arizona said," was his reply.
   that was nearly two years ago, when mcconnell used senate rules to
   keep mccain's bill from coming up for a vote. but then mccain took his
   crusade to the presidential campaign trail, portraying himself as a
   luke skywalker-type character battling the forces of evil. he lost the
   presidency, but gained stature and power to push his legislation
   through the senate. and when the debate hit the senate floor this
   time, mcconnell jokingly called himself darth vader, the "star wars"
   villain. ~ and this time it didn't get personal; in fact, mcconnell
   says he's never gotten along so well with his adversary. "we had not
   been on good terms for years, and i think it was largely because of
   this issue. we actually had a good working relationship during the
   course of the debate. he didn't surprise me and i didn't surprise him;
   it went well." in its current form, the bill boosts the cap on hard
   money donations to federal candidates, while eliminating soft-money
   donations, those unlimited funds that go to political parties. the
   bill would also restrict advertising 60 days before an election by
   unions and corporations. and though mccain said he is "guardedly
   optimistic" that the legislation will clear the house, others seem
   less certain. rep. charles rangel, d-new york, predicted the measure
   would pass the house by a slim margin, but said republicans would "put
   a poison pill" in the legislation when it goes to a conference
   committee. "and it will never reach the president's desk," rangel told
   cnn's "late edition with wolf blitzer. " republicans, meanwhile, left
   open the possibility that mccain would not even be named to any
   conference committee that considers his legislation. sen. chuck hagel,
   r-nebraska, said mccain didn't sit on the rules committee, which had
   jurisdiction over the bill, so he didn't have a legitimate claim to
   sit on any committee that resolves differences between the house and
   senate versions that may emerge. appearing on cnn, hagel said mccain's
   views on campaign finance reform did not square with those of most of
   his gop colleagues. "sen. mccain is not representative of the
   republican conference on this bill," said hagel, who had
   unsuccessfully pushed a rival measure in the senate.