CNN.com - McCain and McConnell -- the rivalry continues - March 30, 2001
washington (cnn) -- the battle over big money in politics is all but
   over in the senate, but for the two leading protagonists, the war
   continues. "it's not over yet," said sen. mitch mcconnell, r-kentucky,
   the most vocal opponent of the senate's all-but-passed campaign
   finance bill. "its over in the senate, but this is a bill that's
   fraught with all kinds of constitutional problems and if it becomes
   law, i'm taking it to court," mcconnell declared. meanwhile, the chief
   sponsor of the bill, arizona republican john mccain, vows to fight
   that battle when it comes. but first things first: he's focused on the
   upcoming battle in the house of representatives. "it's been through
   the house twice by overwhelming majority so i think we can do it,"
   mccain told cnn on friday. "i do not underestimate that the closer we
   get to passage, the greater the opposition will be. "there's no doubt
   that a win here was important," he said. "but it's still a long way
   from us having a bill on the president's desk." mccain. mcconnell. the
   battle continues because for each man it is more of a personal crusade
   than a senate debate. for mcconnell, it is a crusade to protect the
   first amendment. for mccain, it is a crusade to restore public trust
   in politics. the last time they faced off in the senate, it got
   personal. mccain read the webster's dictionary definition of
   "corruption," and mcconnell took offense. that was nearly two years
   ago. the offended mcconnell used senate rules to keep mccain's bill
   from coming up for a vote. when mccain took his crusade to last year's
   presidential campaign trail, he portrayed himself as "star wars" hero
   luke skywalker, battling the forces of evil. when the debate hit the
   senate floor this time, mcconnell jokingly called himself darth vader,
   the "star wars" villain. republican sen. phil gramm of texas said of
   mcconnell: "i want to say to my dear colleague from kentucky that i
   admire him. "very few pundits are applauding," gramm said. "i just
   want to say i am one person who's applauding, and i will never ever
   forget what you've done. it may not be in an editorial, but it's sure
   as hell enshrined in my heart." but gramm emerged from the campaign
   finance debate with newfound respect for mccain as well. "he has
   reminded me in this debate of an ancient god aeneas whose mother was
   the earth, and every time he was thrown to the ground he got up
   stronger than he had been when he was cast to the ground," gramm said.
   this time around, it didn't get personal. in fact, mcconnell, whose
   frigid relationship with mccain has never been a secret, now says he
   has never gotten along so well with his adversary. "we had not been on
   good terms for years, and i think it was largely because of this
   issue," mcconnell said. "we actually had a good working relationship
   during the course of the debate. he didn't surprise me, and i didn't
   surprise him. "it went well," mcconnell said. the next face-off on
   campaign finance reform may be months away. the house is not expected
   to take up the issue until this summer at the earliest.