CNN.com - Career - Ken Park:  'World Almanac' publisher -  March 30, 2001
(cnn) -- ken park, publisher of "the world almanac and book of facts:
   2001," is familiar with the idea that we're living in the information
   age, what with the internet and all. in fact, he has a favorite quote
   on the subject, and he enjoys reading it: "'we are deluged in a
   torrent of information,'" he reads from his manhattan office.
   "'reporters search every nook and cranny of the world for news that is
   then forced to the attention of all by screaming headlines in
   newspapers and by excited announcers in the broadcasting studio. "'but
   the multiplication of available knowledge in this world of growing
   complexity often bewilders rather than enlightens. a person in need of
   specific facts frequently is unable to find what he seeks without
   wearisome research,'" reads park. he pauses for effect. "this is from
   a forward to the 'facts on file' yearbook," he says, "in 1959." in
   other words, there has always been a "torrent of information," even
   before the internet came along. and before the internet, there was
   "the world almanac," the lighthouse in the foggy night of too much
   information. published annually since 1886, the "almanac" is a bible
   for fact-seekers. while the internet deluges a user with data both
   right and wrong, the "almanac" is better, park says, and he points to
   the numbers as proof: "the world almanac" continues to sell more than
   1 million copies every year. "we work with the internet all the time.
   that's why we know 'the world almanac' is better," park says. "'the
   world almanac' represents literally thousands of hours of internet
   research." and as it greets the official new millennium year of 2001,
   the book proves it still can endure its latest transition of
   management. this is park's first year as publisher of the annual fact
   survey. it's part of his duties with world almanac education group. a
   career man in the world of facts, park started as a writer for "facts
   on file" -- a reference business -- in 1982. he worked his way up in
   marketing and sales before his company was bought out by wrc media,
   the same company that owns rights to "the world almanac." it's a job
   park says he enjoys. "i think i'll be here until they toss me out,"
   park, 43, says. so does it take an egghead straight-a student to reach
   a pinnacle of reference publishing? talking to park, you don't get
   that sense. he's the first to say that although he graduated from
   cornell university in 1980 with a degree in economics, he graduated
   through luck. he's been married for nine years to a woman who once
   worked above him on the corporate ladder at "facts on file." they live
   in brooklyn, raising their 6-year-old daughter. park says he spends
   between 50 and 60 hours per week at work. his responsibilities
   include, first and foremost, editorial duties -- he edits "the world
   almanac" (published at the end of the year) and "the world almanac for
   kids" (published in august) from cover to cover. there are also daily
   duties in marketing and management, and he says he travels to various
   conferences "a couple of times a month." don't tell park he works with
   trivia. he says his hometown newspaper in columbus, ohio, recently ran
   a piece on him with a sub-headline that read, "'world almanac'
   publisher makes a life compiling trivia." "it wasn't how i'd like to
   think of my life," he laughs. "i don't think it's trivial, for
   instance, that the average earning power of a man in this country has
   basically not changed in the last 25 years. "'the world almanac' tells
   about the world," park says. "maybe the little bits are trivia, in and
   of themselves, but the more you know about that, the more you know
   about the world." he says the job requires a host of personality
   traits and talents. first, one must be obsessed with the smallest
   details -- you can't just say a plane is big, you have to say how big
   it is; you can't just mention the greenhouse effect, you must explain
   the entire process. ""i've never read any of those books that say,
   'don't sweat the details,'" he says. "in reference publishing, when
   you're putting out 'the world almanac,' you've got to sweat the
   details." a must for the reference publisher: the ability to write.
   another: a love of your job, and not necessarily the finer things in
   life. "don't expect a lot of money," he says of his work. "you work in
   publishing for the joy of the work and the effect of the work." and
   yes, it helps to know a lot. in fact, you won't get a job at world
   almanac without being tested on your knowledge. "i gave this test to
   the graduate of a fairly prestigious university," park says. "the
   question was this: which is the largest oil-producing nation in the
   middle east? her answer was nicaragua. that's not the kind of person
   we need." park, however, admits that even he make errors. the latest
   "world almanac," for instance, contains a misspelled version of "star
   wars" character obi-wan kenobi. "i like to say (the 'almanac'
   contains) hundreds of thousands of facts," he says. "so if you make
   three goofs, it's above the industry standard." what does park enjoy
   most about his job? he says he gets satisfaction out of giving "the
   world almanac for kids" to young people and watching them learn from
   it. "we hear a lot about education in this country today and to be
   contributing to the education of children in a very real way is the
   thing i find the most rewarding," he says. it's that kind of reward
   that has kept park in the business for two decades, and he says it
   will keep him there for the foreseeable future. "i think the value of
   our products will only increase," he says. "we are deluged in a
   torrent of information and have been since 1959, at least. "it's the
   work i love," he says.