CNN.com - Review: 'Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast' - March 29, 2002
(idg) -- bucking recent trends in "star wars" gaming, "star wars jedi
   knight ii: jedi outcast" is good. really good. it's a balance of
   license and gameplay that brings honor to the "star wars" name and
   real jedi action to your pc."jedi outcast" has one of the tightest
   stories of any fps today. you are kyle katarn, the hero (and villain)
   of the original jedi knight and a mercenary for the new republic. the
   game takes place years after "return of the jedi," so only remnants of
   the empire remain. after checking out an imperial remnant base with
   your partner jan, you get embroiled into a deep plot filled with
   intrigue, loss, and betrayal, and along the way, you regain your lost
   jedi powers.adding jedi powers to an already-great fps engine is a
   stroke of genius. imagine if in "quake iii" (the game engine on which
   "jedi outcast" is based) you could hit a button and yank your
   opponent's weapon out of their hands, or wave a hand and throw five
   enemies against the nearest wall. imagine cornering an enemy and
   lifting them with the force, then choking them like darth vader. then
   there's the lightsaber battles -- oh, the lightsaber battles -- which
   will have true "star wars" fans drooling on their keyboards and
   cackling with delight. you haven't done it all until you've fought two
   'saber-wielding evil jedi and defeated one with sheer skill before
   choking the other to death with the force. unbelievable.
   and...surprise! it all controls rather well with only the chaos of the
   lightsaber duels to detract from a feeling of total control.visually,
   "jedi outcast" looks amazing. everything is as "star wars" as it
   should be; droids shamble and shine, stormtroopers flip and dance when
   they get shot, and blasters spurt color-coded beams across the
   battlefield. you'll recognize tie fighters in their hangar and grin
   with satisfaction as a realistic-looking lando calrissian greets you
   from his prison cell. only little flaws hurt the graphics, such as the
   fact that blaster bolts don't light up dark areas and tiny visible
   seams in textures make the characters look just a little abnormal.
   other than those tiny nit-picks, though, the game is simply
   gorgeous.playing "jedi outcast" is a pleasure in and of itself. raven
   has displayed great creativity in this title, especially in level
   layout and puzzles. the force powers gave the developers a lot of
   leeway in what they could do with puzzles, and by and large, the
   challenges you'll face are more than your average
   push-box-jump-over-chasm fps puzzles. there's a lot of
   find-key-find-lock stuff going on, but that's done very well. jaded
   gamers will find exception, however, with many of the obstacles in the
   game. jump puzzles, when they occur, are often frustrating in
   execution, and cliches like running through the air ducts and the
   now-ubiquitous "stealth level" are disappointing after playing through
   a few hours of ingenuity. of course, "jedi outcast"'s sound is
   perfect, but, with this being a "star wars" game, you knew that
   already. the real star of this game is the gameplay, which alternates
   between great and brilliant. no matter what planet you're from, that's
   gotta