CNN.com - Players to benefit from transfer changes - March  6, 2001
changes to football's transfer system will bring an end to the sort of
   deals which last year saw luis figo move from barcelona to real madrid
   for $55.5 million. but players such as portuguese midfielder figo
   stand to benefit financially as clubs, deprived of the powers to hold
   their stars to long term contracts, are forced into wage-bidding wars
   to retain their services. on monday, world governing body fifa,
   european confederation uefa and the european commision finally
   unveiled its blueprint for a new system in line with european
   employment law. the parties had been in dispute since may 2000, when
   eu competition commissioner mario monti challenged football
   authorities to bring the game in line with legislation recognising
   workers' freedom of movement. but, while significant progress has been
   made towards a solution, a gulf still exists between the agreed
   parties and players' union fifpro. while fifa and uefa warned that
   some restrictions on player movement and a system of adequate
   compensation for smaller clubs dependent on revenue from player
   transfers were necessary to ensure stability within football, fifpro's
   representatives have consistently argued for maximum freedom for its
   members. the european commission has recognised uefa and fifa's
   concerns as far as it can by agreeing to limit players to one transfer
   a year within a limited window, by placing restrictions on the
   transfer of players up to the age of 23 and by agreeing to a system of
   sporting sanctions to prevent unilateral breaches of contract.
   however, fifpro immediately rejected the deal and threatened legal
   action. it favours 12-month contracts and argues players should be
   able to break their contracts for any "just sportive cause." much will
   depend on whether the parties can agree to an effective arbitration
   system. crucially, under the terms of the current agreement, the
   verdict of the arbitration body would not prevent a player's recourse
   to a civil court. players have successfully challenged football
   legislation in the past. in a 1995 case brought by jean-marc bosman,
   the european court of justice declared it illegal for clubs to demand
   payment for out-of-contract players. last year russian valery karpin
   won a ruling from a madrid court declaring spanish league restrictions
   on non-eu players illegal. a deal that failed to meet the requirements
   of european law could quickly be overturned in the court of justice
   which is due to rule on a case brought by hungarian tibor balog. he
   claims he was prevented from leaving charleroi of belgium because they
   set his transfer price too high. a workable final system is therefore
   unlikely to be agreed without fifpro endorsement and further talks
   could mean more concessions to player power. with leading players
   already able to command $100,000-a-week wages it would be an irony if
   employment law designed to protect workers from exploitation allowed
   them to exploit their star status for even greater rewards.