CNN.com - Entertainment - Showbuzz - March  5, 2001
new york -- she might have split up with sean "puffy" combs, but
   jennifer lopez is following in the rap mogul's fashion footsteps.
   lopez, who pays the bills as an actress and singer, has signed a deal
   with andy hilfiger, the younger brother of designer tommy hilfiger.
   she wants to create her own clothing line for hilfiger's company,
   entertainment fashion inc., according to the new york post's sunday
   edition. lopez's spokesman declined comment. combs, whose trial on
   weapons charges could see closing arguments this week, also has a
   clothing line. sean john showed its fall wares at new york's fashion
   week last month. also last month, on valentine's day, combs announced
   he and lopez had broken up. fairmont, west virginia -- he's the one
   who gave chuck berry his start, and he even helped him write some of
   the biggest hits of rock 'n' roll's early era. now, finally, johnnie
   "b. goode" johnson will be inducted into the rock and roll hall of
   fame. the ceremony will take place on march 19 and it will be
   televised on vh1 on march 21. johnson headed up the johnnie johnson
   trio in 1952 when he hired berry, who had been playing guitar a mere
   six months, to fill in for a sick saxophonist at a gig in st. louis,
   missouri. johnson kept berry on and eventually let him take over the
   band. they collaborated on songs that formed the foundation of rock
   'n' roll, including "roll over beethoven," "school days," "back in the
   u.s.a.," "rock and roll music," "sweet little sixteen," and "too much
   monkey business." berry wrote the hit song "johnny b. goode" as a
   tribute to johnson, who grew up in fairmont, west virginia. santa
   rosa, california -- charles schulz is being remembered with a
   sculpture of two popular characters in his comic strip "peanuts." the
   4-foot bronze "peanuts" sculpture of a smiling charlie brown with his
   arm around snoopy was unveiled this weekend in schultz's former home
   in santa rosa, california. schulz, 77, died at his home of
   complications of cancer on february 12, 2000, the day before his
   farewell "peanuts" cartoon was published. the sculpture, commissioned
   by the city of santa rosa and sonoma county, cost $270,000. "i think
   everyone who will see the sculpture will feel happy," said the
   cartoonist's widow, jean schulz. new york -- hollywood celebrities are
   giving away prized possessions to help african children fighting aids.
   catherine zeta-jones' costume from "the mask of zorro," harrison
   ford's "indiana jones" bullwhip and mel gibson's "braveheart" sword
   are just some of the movie props that will be auctioned off at
   sotheby's on tuesday. it's part of "movie action for children,"
   started by actor liam neeson through the united nations children's
   fund. proceeds will go to unicef's efforts in zambia, zimbabwe and
   ivory coast. sotheby's is waiving its commissions for the sale. other
   items up for bid: neeson's light saber from "star wars: episode i --
   the phantom menace"; the red dress meryl streep wore in "the bridges
   of madison county"; and memorabilia from "titanic," including a deck
   chair.