CNN.com - Greenpeace to fight U.S. missile plan - February 26, 2001
brussels, belgium -- environmental group greenpeace has vowed to stop
   the united states going ahead with plans to build a system that would
   be able to shoot down incoming ballistic missiles. the group issued
   the warning a day before u.s. secretary of state colin powell arrives
   in brussels to meet european union and nato officials -- some of whom
   are also concerned at the national missile defense (nmd) plan.
   president george w. bush wants to develop nmd as a defensive system
   but critics say it could violate the 1972 anti-ballistic missile
   treaty and spark a new arms race. greenpeace said it was confident of
   galvanising public support against nmd. a campaign spokesman said: "we
   can assure (powell) that wherever he goes in the world we will be
   present. the star wars project must be stopped and we are convinced it
   can be stopped." but greenpeace, which briefly invaded the nato
   alliance's brussels headquarters in december to protest against the
   nmd plan, said it would not disrupt powell's visit on tuesday. the
   group said it aimed to mobilise public opinion against the
   anti-missile plan. nmd, it claims, will destabilise the post cold-war
   entente between nuclear states and prompt countries to deploy more
   warheads capable of breaching the hi-tech defences. its ship, the
   rainbow warrior, was en route to a u.s. missile test site in the south
   pacific, the environmentalists said. the group said it would also
   launch campaigns in britain and greenland, which host radar facilities
   that may be needed to operate nmd. greenpeace says the stated aim of
   nmd -- to defuse the nuclear threat from what washignton refers to as
   'rogue nations' -- would backfire as states not covered by such a
   shield would redouble their efforts to maintain their nuclear strike
   capability. powell sits down on tuesday with nato foreign ministers to
   again explain the u.s. plans to develop and deploy nmd. the u.s. wants
   to develop missile interceptors that will shoot down ballistic weapons
   fired by what it calls "nations of concern," such as north korea, iran
   or iraq. but some european critics, notably russia and nato member
   france, have expressed grave concerns. washington has said it is
   willing to provide its european allies and canada with the same
   technology, if they want it or can afford it. the u.s., for its part,
   is concerned about european union plans to develop a 60,000-man
   rapid-reaction force to be used in peacekeeping or humanitarian crises
   in which nato as a whole decides not to get involved. washington has
   said it supports such a force, which would have access to nato assets,
   as long as it does not undermine the alliance. powell and the allies
   will also review the situation in bosnia and kosovo, where nato leads
   about 60,000 peacekeepers from more than 30 nations. of particular
   concern is the rising violence in kosovo and southern serbia, where
   ethnic albanian rebels have clashed continuously with serb security
   forces in the presevo valley and in other parts of kosovo where serbs
   have come under attack.