CNN.com - Blair: Saddam most dangerous leader - February 20, 2001
london, england -- british prime minister tony blair has denounced iraqi
   leader saddam hussein as one of the world's most dangerous rulers.
   ahead of his first meeting with u.s. president george w. bush, blair
   defended both countries' airstrikes on baghdad on friday. blair's
   north american visit begins on wednesday in the canadian capital,
   ottawa, after which he will travel to washington where he will meet
   vice president dick cheney. he will then hold talks with bush at camp
   david, maryland, before returning to london on saturday. keen to
   emphasise the common ground between the two leaders, the uk leader
   defended the u.s.-british air strikes on targets south of baghdad last
   week as "absolutely essential." "he's an extremely dangerous man,
   probably the most dangerous ruler at the present time anywhere in the
   world ... (and) the policy of containment must stay in place,î blair
   said. the iraqi president had killed thousands of his own people,
   launched a war that cost the lives of a million people and was trying
   to develop weapons of mass destruction, he said. "if that doesn't make
   him dangerous i don't know what does,î blair said. the british prime
   minister, who enjoyed a close relationship with president bill
   clinton, will be the first european leader to meet bush since his
   inauguration. it is expected that defence and trade will top the
   agenda. the joint air strikes against iraq angered some eu members --
   most notably france -- who are also sometimes at loggerheads with the
   u.s. on trade issues. but blair is keen to promote the uk as a bridge
   between the two. earlier this month he said the uk and u.s. shared
   "bonds of kinship and history and a bond of a shared language, but
   most of all ... shared values." blair's official spokesman said on
   tuesday: "the prime minister has always seen the notion that we have
   to choose between the united states and europe as a false choice, and
   also a foolish choice." but some european countries fear bush's plans
   for a ballistic missile defence shield -- dubbed "son of star wars" --
   may trigger a new arms race. blair's government has been cautious
   about the plan, but says it understands washington's concerns. "it is
   a very sensitive issue," blair told forbes magazine in an interview
   posted on its web site last week. "my own judgment is that provided we
   handle it with care, there is a way through which meets america's
   objectives and other people's concerns." blair's spokesman said the
   camp david meeting was unlikely to produce a more concrete response,
   because u.s. plans had yet to be formalised. he also played down
   british fears that the shield would involve basing u.s. missiles in
   britain. "no proposal that has been put forward involves u.s. missiles
   on british soil," he said. britain has suggested that bush should meet
   the 15 european leaders in june at a u.s.-european union summit. "we
   have proposed ... that rather than have the usual format, which is
   basically (eu) presidency plus commission, that it be used for
   president bush to meet all the european leaders, and that is something
   we hope will happen," said blair's spokesman. a european union summit
   of all 15 eu leaders is set for gothenburg, sweden, on june 15-16.
   while no date has been set for the eu-u.s. summit, a swedish
   presidency source said that one option the swedes were looking at was
   a dinner for bush and all 15 eu leaders just before the gothenburg
   summit.