CNN.com - Entertainment - Review: 'Monkeybone' mostly unfunny and grotesque - February 23, 2001
(cnn) -- "monkeybone" is one of those newfangled production design
   monstrosities that grabs you by the collar in the first ten minutes,
   then shakes you around like a rag doll until you're ready to drop.
   rest assured that there are people out there who will view this as
   "entertainment." if, however, you normally operate within the realm of
   sanity, you'll feel like you're mainlining espresso in the middle of
   oncoming traffic. brendan fraser is stu miley, a kind-hearted
   cartoonist who wrecks his car and falls into a coma, just as his
   ultimate creation, monkeybone, is set to become a cash-cow tv series.
   monkeybone is a heckling simian who shrieks and hops around like roger
   rabbit squared. he's more or less an animated representation of stu's
   id. stu's coma is especially unfortunate because he was ready to
   propose to his girlfriend, julie (bridget fonda), when the lights went
   out. julie remains loyal, praying for stu to snap out of it before his
   uncaring sister (megan mullally) pulls the plug. but that's just a
   prelude to the real action, which takes place in a netherworld called
   downtown. at this point, viewers with pacemakers would be well advised
   to leap up and run out of the theater. when stu's consciousness
   awakens in downtown, you suddenly feel like a team of 9-year-olds is
   pelting you with their favorite action figures. if you've seen "the
   nightmare before christmas" or "james and the giant peach," you're
   familiar with director henry selick's work -- but those movies are
   strolls in the park compared to downtown. downtown looks like a
   mile-a-minute amalgamation of "pee wee's playhouse," terry gilliam's
   "brazil," the afterlife scenes in "beetlejuice," the cantina scene in
   "star wars," and an especially infantile episode of "laugh-in."
   there's a whole lot to look at, and very little chance to properly
   take it all in. by the time your eyes lock on one unfortunate
   creature, another five come hopping around the corner. the assault
   never lets up. look -- it's a bunch of pigeons with human heads! look
   -- it's a one-eyed man walking on his hands! look -- it's a lobster
   with a man's face! stu stumbles wildly through this mutated carnival,
   trying to get his bearings. eventually, he determines that downtown is
   a stop-over between heaven and hell, and, for whatever reason, its
   occupants entertain themselves by watching the nightmares of people
   back on earth. none of this makes much sense, but sense isn't the
   point. every special effects person in the state of california must
   have been clamoring to work on this baby. now you know why latex
   stocks went through the roof last year. despite stiff competition,
   stu's biggest downtown annoyance is monkeybone himself (voiced by john
   turturro, with the tape speeded up), who's now very real and driving
   everyone to distraction. to make a long, absurdist story short, stu
   tries to escape downtown and return to julie. but monkeybone steals
   the required gold pass from the grim reaper (whoopi goldberg) and
   re-inhabits stu's body himself. from there on out, it's stu acting
   like a greedy, sexist pig as he humiliates julie and tries to grab as
   much money as he can via crass monkeybone merchandising deals. fraser
   is game for anything, as long as it's not acting like a mature human
   being. you have to have a lot of confidence to eat cake with your bare
   hands, swing down from an overhead bed frame as a prelude to sex, or
   seduce an orangutan in order to get your hands on a flask of potent
   nightmare juice. (never mind what nightmare juice is. suffice it to
   say that monkeybone injects it into scores of monkeybone dolls, which
   then expel it on unsuspecting victims and cause them to dream up
   further entertainment for the monsters who populate downtown.) the
   only laughs generated by this thing -- outside of a few gasp-chuckles
   at the ungainly downtown creatures -- come courtesy of "saturday night
   live"'s chris kattan, as a gymnast with a badly broken neck who
   springs off the autopsy table and runs through the streets when stu's
   spirit takes over his body. kattan pulls off moments of physical
   comedy that would do steve martin proud. it's a long slog getting
   there, though, and you may be too frazzled to focus by the time he
   shows up. "monkeybone" is surprisingly grotesque for a pg-13 picture
   and will likely scare the hell out of younger children. there are
   references to sex and bodily functions, and kattan's kidneys and
   stomach fall out as he runs around like a crazy person. there are also
   some nightmare sequences that would give salvador dali the willies.
   remember when people used to like fred astaire movies?