CNN.com - U.S. to ease missile defense fears - February 10, 2001
washington -- the u.s. has reiterated it will press ahead with missile
   defense technology but has promised talks with nations wary of the
   plan. secretary of state colin powell denied criticisms that the
   technology -- to shoot down ballistic missiles in flight -- would
   spark off a new arms race. russia, china and a number of european
   union countries, including the uk and germany, have all expressed
   reservations about the national missile defense (nmd) initiative. to
   develop the system washington would have to either rip up the 1972
   anti-ballistic missile treaty -- which outlaws nmd -- or persuade
   russia to accept alterations to the treaty. powell said: "we are going
   to consult with our allies to hear their concerns. "but we are not
   going to be knocked off the track of moving in this direction as long
   as the technology points us in that direction." russia has strongly
   criticized washington's nmd plan. it has warned that not only does
   moscow already have technology that would pierce nmd but also if the
   u.s. does develop the system it would spark a new arms race. defense
   minister igor sergeyev said old soviet technologies developed in the
   1980s to oppose ronald reagan's star wars plan could easily penetrate
   the nmd system. uk foreign secretary robin cook said nmd plans should
   only be implemented in a way that does not increase tension with
   russia. during a visit to washington this week, cook stressed the need
   to respect the terms of the 1972 treaty. german foreign minister
   joschka fischer said nato was the right forum for consulting on any
   moves. he said: "the tight net of treaties of nuclear disarmament and
   non-proliferation must be retained, strengthened and built up." there
   are also domestic u.s. opponents to nmd, with senator joseph biden, a
   democrat from delaware, saying that a u.s. missile defense program
   would prompt china to increase its missile program, which in turn
   would lead to india and then pakistan building up missile programs.
   powell's support for nmd came as president george w. bush ordered a
   review of the u.s. military including how to reduce its nuclear
   arsenal. russian military sources, quoted by interfax news agency,
   said moscow still opposed any changes to the treaty, but were ready
   for talks with washington on co-ordinated arms cuts. "we are ready to
   start immediate talks with the united states on further arms
   reductions and seek constructive ways to maintain a strategic
   stability," interfax quoted the sources as saying.