CNN.com - UK signals support for missile plan - February 16, 2001
london, england -- britain is offering tentative support for the united
   states' proposal to build a national missile defence system. but prime
   minister tony blair said the system must meet concerns from europe and
   china about the maintenance of anti-ballistic missile treaties which
   have put a brake on the arms race for more than 20 years. u.s.
   president george w. bush has sparked international concern by
   insisting on pushing ahead with the national missile defence (nmd)
   scheme to create a "missile shield." he believes the shield is
   necessary to protect the u.s. from attacks by "rogue states" such as
   north korea, iran or iraq. "this is definitely in the box marked
   'handle with care' on all sides," blair told the latest edition of
   forbes magazine. "it is a very sensitive issue. my own judgment is
   that provided we handle it with care, there is a way through which
   meets america's objectives and other people's concerns." he was
   speaking as a senior russian general revealed that moscow is preparing
   a missile shield for europe. colonel-general leonid ivashov, head of
   the defence ministry's international co-operation department, said the
   proposal would easily beat nmd, which russia says could drain europe
   financially. "it may be a special, mobile, non-strategic anti-missile
   force," ivashov told a news conference. he said the scheme involved a
   thorough assessment of existing and future missile threats and, if
   such were detected, a joint international effort to counteract them
   through political and other non-military means. only in the final
   resort would mobile anti-missile forces be deployed near a potential
   aggressor, he said. blair said he believed that the bush
   administration was "sensitive" to foreign worries about the proposals
   and would discuss the issue with other states in a "serious and
   sensible" way. he travels to washington to meet bush next week and the
   two are expected to discuss the new president's decision to deploy a
   limited ballistic missile defence shield. a key part of the scheme --
   nicknamed son of star wars -- is thought to depend on the upgrading of
   the uk's fylingdales early warning base in north yorkshire, which
   critics say would make britain a prime target for anyone wanting to
   strike the u.s. blair has so far refused to say whether he would agree
   to the use of british sites for nmd, insisting that it would be wrong
   to do so before any request has been received from the u.s. critics
   believe the missile shield would spell an end to the 1972
   anti-ballistic missile (abm) treaty, and some european leaders agree
   with russian warnings that it could start a new arms race. russia has
   said that if the u.s. were to withdraw from the abm treaty, moscow
   would feel compelled to abandon agreements that limit numbers of
   long-range nuclear weapons. china also views plans for a u.s. missile
   shield as a threat to its security. earlier this month, germany urged
   bush's new administration to be cautious in developing the plan.
   german chancellor gerhard schroeder said europe and the u.s. should
   talk before any action is taken. schroeder said: "we should look for
   joint answers to the existing and new threats to security."