CNN.com - Russia issues missile defence warning - February  6, 2001
moscow, russia (cnn) -- a proposed u.s. scheme to develop a system to
   destroy missiles in flight would be ineffective against russian
   technology, russia's defence minister has warned. igor sergeyev said
   old soviet technologies developed in the 1980s to oppose ronald
   reagan's star wars plan could easily pierce the proposed u.s. national
   missile defense (nmd) system. the minister added: "we had three mighty
   programmes to asymmetrically counteract u.s. missile defences during
   reagan's star wars. we still have them and can take them up again." he
   said that the soviet union had spent enough money on the programmes to
   take them beyond the stage of research and development at the moment
   when they were halted. sergeyev warning follows a threat by a leading
   russian security official that u.s. plans to deploy an anti-missile
   system would lead to a new arms race. sergei ivanov, secretary of
   russia's security council, said the plan would undermine world
   stability, and he offered washington talks on substantial arms cuts if
   it abandoned the scheme. russia also says developing the nmd system
   would effectively rip up the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, which
   was designed to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. "the
   destruction of the treaty will result in the annihilation of the whole
   structure of strategic stability and create prerequisites for a new
   arms race," ivanov said. defence and security officials from europe
   and asia also expressed concern at washington's plan to press ahead
   with its missile system. at a conference in munich on sunday, they
   said it could spur a new international arms competition and scuttle
   existing accords such as the abm treaty. sergeyev said u.s. faith in
   its defence concept was misplaced. "the americans may regard these
   systems as unique, but we do not share their opinion," he said. "these
   are really complex technologies, but complex technologies, as a rule,
   are not reliable." sergeyev added that the russian military could
   offer its u.s. counterparts proof that missile defence "wouldn't give
   absolute confidence in its inviolability." "on the contrary, it will
   trigger a new spiral in the arms race and ruin the existing system of
   arms control," sergeyev said. moscow has fiercely opposed u.s.
   proposals to modify the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty to allow
   for the deployment of nmd which u.s. officials say is needed to guard
   against threats from countries such as north korea and iraq. the new
   u.s. defence secretary, donald rumsfeld, has stressed the missile
   defence plan is being developed in the interest of global security.