CNN.com - Missile plan fears spread - February  7, 2001
stockholm, sweden -- sweden and the united kingdom have joined the list
   of nations voicing concerns over the anti-missile system being
   proposed by george w. bush's administration in the u.s. sweden's
   foreign minister anna lindh has urged the united states to abandon
   plans for its national missile defence (nmd) shield. her british
   counterpart, robin cook, pleaded in washington for the u.s. to be
   aware of increasing world tension with plans for the defence system.
   nmd, which washington says is vital to defend the u.s. against
   possible attack by states such as north korea and iraq, is being
   developed to destroy missiles in flight lindh expressed fears that a
   new arms race could develop if the u.s. goes ahead with its
   controversial defence system. she said: "we urge the u.s. to consider
   the consequences for disarmament and (nuclear) non-proliferation
   efforts if nmd is developed, and to therefore abandon it." bush's
   administration has said it intends to develop and deploy nmd as a
   defensive system to protect against a limited attack. sweden currently
   holds the rotating european union presidency. lindh's comment was made
   in her foreign policy speech during a debate in the swedish
   parliament. it was one of the strongest calls to date by a senior eu
   country cabinet minister for washington to refrain from deploying nmd.
   china and germany are among other nations who have urged caution over
   plans for the anti-missile system. british foreign secretary robin
   cook said nmd plans should only be implemented in a way that does not
   increase tension with russia. cook, in washington for talks with the
   new u.s. administration, stressed the need to respect the terms of the
   1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty with the old soviet union. the u.s.
   has not so far asked britain to agree to upgrade a strategic radar
   base in yorkshire that is likely to be needed by the u.s. programme,
   cook told the bbc. u.s. defense secretary donald rumsfeld said last
   week during a visit to munich that washington would not act alone but
   would consult its european allies. russia has said that the proposed
   u.s. scheme would be ineffective against russian technology anyway.
   defence minister igor sergeyev said old soviet technologies developed
   in the 1980s to oppose ronald reagan's star wars plan could easily
   pierce the nmd system. and sergei ivanov, secretary of russia's
   security council, has said the plan would undermine world stability.
   he offered washington talks on substantial arms cuts if it abandoned
   the scheme.