CNN.com - 'Star Wars' trailer: Tears of a clone - March 14, 2002
(entertainment weekly) -- one thing's clear from the newest trailer for
   ''star wars, episode ii: attack of the clones'': george lucas hasn't
   lost his touch for dialogue. who else -- other than ed wood -- would
   make ewan mcgregor intone the line "your clones are very impressive?"
   or force hayden christensen to make frequent use of the honorific
   "m'lady?" but ''star wars'' isn't ''my dinner with andre,'' and lucas
   might argue that dialogue isn't the point. instead, judging from the
   new trailer and its three predecessors, the goal seems to be to create
   images that no moviegoer has ever seen before: a thousand clone
   troopers massing underneath an orange sky, a battalion of jedi
   wielding lightsabers in an all-out war, or a ship zooming through the
   alien cityscape of coruscant. the trailer's visual dazzle is
   promising, but after the betrayal of ''phantom menace'' (which only
   seems more clunky and sterile as time goes by) ''star wars'' fans are
   like cuckolded spouses; we want to believe that lucas will come
   through this time, but it's hard to trust him. the refreshing lack of
   hype for ''clones'' (''phantom menace'' was on every magazine cover in
   the english-speaking world by this time in 1999) bodes well. so does
   lucas' repeated promise that the movie will be darker in tone. as a
   stand-alone preview of ''clones,'' ''clone war'' (yeah, lucasfilm
   actually gives its trailers little names) falls short, giving no hint
   of the love story seen in previous trailers, while simultaneously
   letting slip what must be a major plot point. (''they are using a
   bounty hunter named jango fett to create a clone army,'' obi-wan
   shouts.) and the rapid cuts, intended to convey the sheer magnitude of
   what's in store, end up headache-inducing and nearly incoherent.
   still, anyone who knows their ''star wars'' lore has to thrill, at
   least a little, to yoda's syntax-challenged proclamation, ''begun,
   this clone war has.'' unlike ''phantom menace,'' which answered
   questions that weren't raised by the original trilogy (who knew, or
   cared, what anakin was like as a 10-year-old?), ''attack of the
   clones'' will flesh out key areas of the mythos, including the
   courtship of luke and leia's parents, the descent of anakin into the
   dark side, and, yes, the clone wars, which were hinted at since the
   beginning. so it's exciting to see touches of the original movies in
   the trailer, like natalie portman's padmÈ decked out in a princess
   leia-style outfit, and christopher lee's count dooku (great name
   there, george) spitting out darth vader-style blandishments. (''you
   must join me, obi-wan, and together we'll destroy the sith.'') even
   more thrilling is that this is the fourth trailer in a row to treat
   jar jar binks like a floppy-eared stepchild -- while he does pop up in
   two scenes, only the most pause-button-happy fans are likely to see
   him. now we just have to hope that with all that cloning, no one tries
   it on mr. binks.