CNN.com -  Germany, Russia mull U.S. missile shield - January 30, 2001
moscow, russia -- objections to the united states' new missile defence
   programme have topped the agenda in talks between german and russian
   military officials. germany's defence minister rudolf scharping is in
   moscow to discuss the national missile defence (nmd) system, currently
   being promoted by president george w. bush, with russian foreign
   minister igor ivanov and top military officials. scharping shares the
   reservations of most european nato members about the u.s. proposal to
   build an anti-missile shield and the amendments it will almost
   certainly entail to the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. french
   defence minister alain richard also upheld a commitment to abm during
   moscow talks this month. russia, backed by china, sees abm as an
   untouchable foundation for all disarmament talks. as scharping was
   beginning his day of talks with ivanov, russia's military chiefs were
   issuing a fresh warning that proceeding with the national missile
   defence (nmd) system could unleash a new arms race. colonel-general
   valery manilov, russia's first deputy chief of staff, said an
   alternative russian system involving nato and the european union would
   leave the military balance untouched and serve the same purpose of
   eliminating the threat of missile strikes by "so-called rogue
   regimes." "if it is deemed necessary to modernise the system, then
   this must be done gradually, with the agreement of other countries,"
   he said. russian missile experts are travelling to the u.s. to work
   with specialists on a defence system seen as an alternative to nmd.
   the new bush administration is keen on nmd, dubbed in europe the "son
   of star wars", and u.s. defence secretary donald rumsfeld last week
   repeated his belief that abm was of limited value in the
   post-communist era and that bush was committed to nmd. the u.s. system
   is supposed to guard against the possibility of missile strikes from
   "rogue states" like iran and north korea. scharping told a german
   newspaper last week that he viewed nmd as unrealistic. like russian
   officials, he has called on bush to discuss the proposal with
   washington's european allies. scharping was also likely to discuss the
   effects of depleted uranium munitions used by nato in balkan wars
   through the 1990s. he was at the centre of a diplomatic tiff with
   washington this month when he summoned the u.s. charge d'affaires to
   seek more information about possible plutonium traces in the weapons.
   russia has denounced their use in both the balkans and the 1991 gulf
   war and called on nato to conduct and pay for investigations into the
   effects of their use. scharping is also likely to discuss the eu's
   plan to raise a force of up to 60,000 men for disaster relief and
   peacekeeping. russia has offered no objections to the plan but wants
   to be kept abreast of developments. they are also to talk about the
   situation in the middle east. scharping's visit comes ahead of a
   european security conference on saturday in munich, germany, which is
   expected to discuss the nmd system and which rumsfeld is expected to
   attend. putin proposed an alternative limited missile defence last
   year, which unlike the u.s. plan, apparently would not violate the abm
   treaty. however, few details have been released.