CNN.com - Technology - Review: 'Star Wars: Episode I Battle for Naboo' - January 11, 2001
(cnn) -- the next "star wars" movie is more than a year away, but
   fortunately the force is strong with the creative folks over at
   lucasarts. their latest video game effort is "star wars: episode i
   battle for naboo." "naboo" is the second game for the nintendo 64
   based on the "episode i: the phantom menace" movie. the first, "star
   wars: episode i racer" (1999), was a decent title based on one of the
   better scenes in the movie. "naboo" is a sequel as well, following up
   the successful combat-fighter game "star wars: rogue squadron" (1998).
   the plot of the game is pretty straightforward. you control lieutenant
   gavyn sykes, fighting to defend his home world against the evil trade
   federation. the story arc of the game loosely takes place in
   conjunction with the movie during a few overlapping levels. for the
   most part it's an original, if not basic story that unravels in
   animated cut scenes before, during and after each level. the game
   consists of 15 levels. about half of them are aerial with the rest on
   the ground or in the water. your objectives are pretty simple in each;
   it's always search and destroy or protect and destroy. along the way
   you get the chance to save hostages, but it's a blast first and skip
   the questions later approach. several crafts are available depending
   on the terrain in each level. these include a land speeder, gain
   speeder, heavy stap, trade federation gunboat, naboo starfighter,
   naboo police cruiser and naboo bomber. a few levels require you to use
   more than one to complete it. the cream of the crop is the
   starfighter. using it to zip through aerial missions in the varied
   terrain is a real treat. in my opinion, the best levels are definitely
   the land-based ones. the second-to-last mission, a run-and-gun through
   the streets of theed (naboo's capital city) will leave you wanting
   more. two of the levels in outer space have you attacking bases and
   engaging in aerial combat with drone fighters. the one noticeable flaw
   in the game exists in these levels because your radar is basically
   two-dimensional in a 3-d environment, which unfortunately makes it
   really easy to miss targets and foes. "naboo" is simply a gorgeous
   looking game. there's no fogging in the distance, allowing for
   expansive views on the horizon on every level that doesn't take place
   off-planet. you can change your game perspective on the fly to include
   your ship in the action or have a crosshairs-only view. there's also
   very little draw-in, which means you don't have to worry about
   unexpected crashes when a mountain appears out of nowhere. lucasarts
   has mastered the daunting task of how to effectively compress sound
   samples in nintendo 64 games. "naboo" is just another chapter in their
   ongoing success. the game features plenty of crisp audio with
   everything from blaster fire to voice samples guiding you to mission
   objectives. perhaps the best aspect of "naboo" is its great replay
   value. after you finish a level, the game rewards you with
   performance-based medals (bronze, silver and gold). medals are awarded
   based on time taken to finish a level, enemies destroyed, accuracy,
   friendly saves, bonus task completion and lives remaining. getting the
   bronze is just a matter of trial and error, while fighting your way to
   gold takes serious patience and skill. hidden levels and vehicles are
   your reward for taking the time. viewing your progress during a level
   would have been a nice touch. it's easy to lose a gold medal by
   failing to take out just one enemy. if you liked "rogue squadron" then
   this game is a must for your collection. if you missed that one, then
   you still won't go wrong with "naboo." the n64 may be showing its age,
   but games like this will keep you from mothballing it just yet.