CNN.com - Technology - CNNdotCOM Technofile: iRobot - December 30, 2000
(cnn) -- billed as the world's first internet-controlled robot, irobot
   puts users in two places at once you can steer this mars rover
   look-alike via your web browser from anywhere in the world. with a
   linux-based personal computer for a brain, it can climb stairs and has
   sonar to help it avoid obstacles. when its one-hour battery starts to
   ebb, it's programmed to hoist itself onto its own recharger. irobot's
   built-in microphone, speakers and digital video camera enable an
   operator to hear, speak and see from the viewpoint of the robot.
   "robotic telepresence," the company calls it. "i was inspired to go
   into this field by seeing 'star wars' and the r2-d2 character," helen
   greiner, co-founder of irobot, told cnn. "we wanted robots to be
   friendly and for people to think of them as a helping hand around the
   house." the 45-pound machine is steered by pointing and clicking
   toward a destination. and irobot's beady laser eyes and animation make
   it look friendly -- a trait its makers fully intended. it can make eye
   contact with a seated person by standing up and extending its neck,
   and has a small vocabulary to express itself. you may be thinking that
   the $6,000 price tag is a bit steep for a mechanical body double. but
   this is a state-of-the-art wireless device that also happens to be a
   fully functioning portable computer -- complete with internet access
   and a web browser. irobot is prompting a new wave of teleconferencing.
   not only can you see, hear and speak at meetings from a remote
   location, but you can also control the robot to look as your
   co-workers speak in turn around the room. while this may not be the
   prettiest way to represent yourself, it certainly is convenient and
   fun. and just imagine how useful web-controlled robots will become
   once they're equipped with hands and arms. a robot belly that doubles
   as a refrigerator would also be a good innovation but then again, you
   might never get some men off the couch.