CNN.com -  Russia plans U.S. missile talks - December 30, 2000
moscow, russia (reuters) -- russia plans to move swiftly to establish a
   "serious dialogue" with u.s. president-elect george w. bush and his
   team over missile defence, the russian foreign minister has said. but
   igor ivanov made it clear that moscow was not ready to drop its
   opposition to a proposed u.s. national missile defence (nmd) shield
   which would violate an arms control treaty. in an article published in
   the nezavisimaya gazeta daily ivanov wrote: "we intend without delay
   to start a serious dialogue with the new american administration on
   the entire range of disarmament issues, including the retention of the
   1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty (abm)." russia has refused to
   re-write the agreement and warned the nmd would spark a new global
   arms race that would draw in china. bush vowed during his election
   campaign to push ahead with the $60 billion "star wars"-style national
   missile defence shield, even if that meant unilaterally violating the
   abm treaty. washington says it needs the system -- which would shoot
   down incoming nuclear missiles -- to protect america from possible
   attack by so-called "rogue states" like iraq and north korea. both are
   developing missile and nuclear capabilities. moscow says american
   fears are exaggerated and any concerns could be met by jointly
   developing a non-strategic missile defence system (which would leave
   abm intact), lower nuclear arsenals and a diplomatic drive focused on
   states of concern. russian president vladimir putin has vowed to scrap
   all disarmament accords with the united states if washington deploys
   the nmd regardless of moscow's security worries. but last month the
   head of russia's strategic rocket force, general vladimir yakovlev,
   caused a stir by suggesting for the first time that moscow could live
   with the nmd if the united states in exchange agreed an "abm tariff."
   that would mean any improvements in missile defence would be
   automatically compensated by cuts in offensive capability, thus
   restoring the strategic balance.