CNN.com - Entertainment - The 10 best films of 2000 - December 29, 2000
(cnn) -- the year 2000, for the most part, has been a dismal one for
   movie fans. sure, we got to meet "erin brockovich," but we also got
   stuck on "the beach" with leo. we tried "keeping the faith" with ed
   norton and ben stiller, but they were "gone in sixty seconds."
   "battlefield earth" left john travolta looking like a "hollow man,"
   and even "nurse betty" couldn't save the "almost famous" jennifer
   lopez when she got trapped in "the cell." still, moviegoers have been
   thrown a cinematic bone or two, especially in the last two months as
   the year-end oscar deadline has loomed. some featured well-known stars
   such as ralph fiennes, george clooney and geoffrey rush. other
   excellent films were complete surprises, seemingly coming out of
   nowhere and starring rosemary harris, judi dench and other veterans.
   here are the top 10 films of the year 2000 in the order of their
   release date. directed by steven soderbergh. starring julia roberts,
   albert finney and aaron eckhart. rated r. 131 minutes. julia roberts
   puts on an industrial-strength push-up bra, spiked heels and a whole
   new attitude resulting in the finest performance of her career to date
   in "erin brockovich." under the gifted direction of steven soderbergh,
   roberts displays her remarkable innate sense of comedic timing tied to
   a finely tuned dramatic performance which cast this international
   superstar in a whole new light. following in the oscar-winning
   footsteps of other real-life stories with female names for a title --
   "norma rae" (1979) and "silkwood" (1983) -- "erin brockovich"
   addresses the empowerment of women who follow their hearts despite the
   odds. this deeply engaging film is cast to perfection with albert
   finney as brockovich's grumpy lawyer boss and marg helgenberger as one
   of the clients. soderbergh has proven that he can deliver a mainstream
   film with the best of them, and this heartfelt and totally satisfying
   film is without doubt one of the best of the year. directed by ridley
   scott. starring russell crowe, joaquin phoenix, oliver reed, richard
   harris and derek jacobi. rated r. 154 minutes. if there were ever any
   doubt that russell crowe is a star of enormous power, his performance
   in the title role of "gladiator" solidifies his place among the list
   of international superstars. "at my signal, unleash hell," his
   character says near the beginning of the film, and from that point, he
   holds the screen like a vise. you believe every word, while your blood
   runs cold. this sweeping, $107 million toga-and-sandal epic
   single-handedly brings back a film genre that reached its peak with
   classic pictures such as "spartacus" (1960) and "ben-hur" (1959).
   beautifully cast with stunning performances from crowe, richard
   harris, joaquin phoenix, oliver reed (who died near the end of
   filming), and connie nielson, this film carries a powerful punch. the
   narrative occasionally stumbles, but the stunning visual effects by
   john nelson and neil corbould, sets by arthur max, and the exquisite
   cinematography by john mathieson -- combined with some of the best
   performances of the year -- make "gladiator" a spectacular experience.
   directed by peter lord and nick park. starring the voice of mel gibson
   and a host of other cluckers. rated g. 84 minutes. claymation chickens
   in the top 10? you betcha! this egg-ceptionally funny movie will crack
   you up. conceived and created by the multiple academy award-winning
   team of peter lord and nick park ("creature comforts" and "wallace &
   gromit"), this wildly funny and amazingly engaging film is brilliantly
   executed. this film parodies a number of world war ii prison
   camp-movies, chief among them "the great escape (1963), and takes
   place at a bleak egg factory. if the chickens don't produce, they
   learn, they're destined to become dinner. mel gibson is the voice of
   rocky the rooster, a brash american cock who leads his fowl friends in
   their desperate efforts to escape before they're turned into chicken
   pies. adult wit, combined with a charmingly simple tale, engages the
   whole family. this is a rare bird indeed. directed by stephen daldry.
   starring julie walters, jamie bell and gary lewis. rated r. 110
   minutes. in recent years, it seems, a small british film comes out of
   nowhere and sweeps the american box office and all the award
   ceremonies. in 2000, that film may be "billy elliot." starring in the
   title role is the remarkable jamie bell in his debut performance. this
   heartfelt tale tells the story of a boy who defies his coal-miner
   father (beautifully played by gary lewis), as he follows his dream of
   becoming a dancer. the indomitable julie walters co-stars as billy's
   ballet teacher. beating the odds while following a dream is a formula
   dished up time and again in films. movie formulas often fail, but not
   this time. director stephen daldry and screenwriter lee hall have
   taken an engaging concept, added perfect casting, and the result is a
   film that lingers in your heart. directed by ken lonergan. starring
   laura linney and mark ruffalo. rated r. 109 minutes. laura linney and
   mark ruffalo turn in translucent performances as a brother and sister
   dealing with the conditions of unconditional love in "you can count on
   me." this small gem of a film by screenwriter kenneth lonergan (making
   his directorial debut) is gently nuanced and overflowing with genuine
   emotion. matthew broderick also appears in a small, but pivotal role.
   rory culkin (the youngest of the acting culkin clan) turns in an
   understated and insightful turn as linney's fatherless son. this
   character-driven story has no neat and tidy ending with a big
   hollywood bow on top. "you can count on me" is about faith, trust and
   family and the accompanying emotions that are, at best, messy; at
   worst, they're downright overwhelming. directed by istvan szabo.
   starring ralph fiennes, rosemary harris, rachel weisz, william hurt
   and jennifer ehle. rated r. 179 minutes. legendary hungarian director
   istvan szabo (who won an academy award in 1981 for best foreign film
   with "mephisto") has created one of the most powerful movies in years.
   along with co-writer israel horovitz, the director has crafted
   "sunshine" (an unfortunate title) as a sweeping epic that follows
   three generations of the wealthy sonnenschein family. in each
   generation ralph fiennes plays the head of the family, appearing first
   as the grandfather, followed by the father and finally the son.
   fiennes portrays three very different jewish men who struggle with
   their wildly divergent dreams and ambitions. each seeks his own
   identity, as a jew and as a man, while the currents of history swirl
   around him. beginning with the dawn of the 20th century, this deeply
   patriotic hungarian family lives through the rule of a monarchy,
   followed by the nazis, the soviets, and finally the end of the cold
   war. rosemary harris also shines in her role as the family's
   matriarch. romance, intrigue, murder, two world wars, love, betrayal
   and a hint of incest -- all set against a world that no longer exists
   -- combine to make "sunshine" a breathtaking and soul-satisfying
   experience. directed by ethan and joel coen. starring george clooney,
   john turturro, tim blake nelson, charles durning, john goodman and
   holly hunter. rated pg-13. 106 minutes. love 'em or hate 'em,
   filmmakers joel and ethan coen are an acquired taste. their latest, "o
   brother, where art thou?" can be found on both the best- and
   worst-lists of films. loosely based on homer's epic 3,000-year-old
   poem, "the odyssey" (and set in the south during the depression, with
   bluegrass music providing an essential theme), the movie is a wry and
   witty adventure buddy flick. george clooney is perfection as ulysses
   everett mcgill, a silver-tongued, petty crook who escapes from a chain
   gang along with two fellow prisoners played by john turturro and tim
   blake nelson. also on hand are coen film veterans john goodman, holly
   hunter and charles durning. this funny, intelligent comedy is a joyful
   blend of historic literature, foot-tapping music, hilarious one-liners
   and that peculiar creative prism through which the coens filter all
   their films. directed by phillip kaufman. starring geoffrey rush, kate
   winslet, joachin phoenix and michael caine. rated r. 123 minutes. the
   marquis de sade, from whose name the word "sadism" comes, lived in the
   late 18th and early 19th centuries. his scandalous, depraved,
   repugnant writings about sexual matters made him an object of great
   controversy both in his own time and in the pages of history.
   eventually sent to an insane asylum where he continued to write and
   later died, the marquis seems an odd choice for a biographical film.
   but in the hands of director philip kaufman, screenwriter doug wright
   and the amazing talents of geoffrey rush as the marquis, "quills" is a
   fascinating tale that manages to be disarmingly funny while carrying a
   message about freedom of speech. the is a magnificent movie,
   thought-provoking rather than blatantly sexual, a rage against
   hypocrisy rather than a call to immorality. joaquin phoenix delivers
   an award-winning performance and kate winslet scores her best role
   since "titanic" (1997). "quills" will be major oscar bait in numerous
   categories. directed by steven soderbergh. starring benicio del toro,
   benjamin bratt, michael douglas, catherine zeta-jones, don cheadle and
   dennis quaid. rated r. 147 minutes. with "traffic," director steven
   soderbergh has created a modern classic. this contemporary thriller
   starring benicio del toro (in his best role to date), michael douglas,
   don cheadle, dennis quaid, and catherine zeta jones is set in the
   world of international drug trafficking. seen through a series of
   interlocking stories -- some deeply personal and emotionally
   heart-wrenching, others featuring webs of corruption filled with
   fast-paced gunplay and the temptations of power and money -- stephen
   gaghan's sprawling, but deeply effective script about the hypocrisies
   and hopelessness surrounding the war on illegal drugs is brilliantly
   conceived and executed. using handheld cameras, natural lighting, and
   various developing processes, soderbergh has achieved a unique look
   that results in a shocking realism rarely seen in mainstream
   filmmaking. this film will be on many short lists for next year's
   academy awards. directed by lasse hallstrom. starring juliette
   binoche, judi dench, alfred molina, lena olin and johnny depp. rated
   pg-13. 121 minutes. "chocolat" is a delightfully delicious confection.
   this romantic fable is set in a small remote french village where
   tradition keeps the people tightly bound within the confines of what
   is and is not expected of them. molina is perfect as the uptight mayor
   outraged by binoche's character, a mysterious woman who arrives out of
   nowhere with her daughter in tow and opens a chocolate shop at the
   beginning of lent. the pious catholic villagers find themselves sorely
   tempted by her chocolates, which seem to have magical powers. things
   get even more complicated and delectable when depp, as a wandering
   gypsy, shows up with temptations of his own. dench again gives an
   oscar-worthy performance as a cantankerous old woman who defies her
   daughter by living her life as she chooses. also look for leslie caron
   in a small part. this movie about the power of acceptance, liberation
   and chocolate is a total delight. go ahead and take a bite.