CNN.com - Career - Clearing out your work space for the new year: Out with the old - December 28, 2000
(cnn) -- daniela berretta just called from cnn italia -- that's our
   italian cnn.com site, molta bella -- looking for a fax she'd passed
   along from burberry designer roberto menichetti's people in europe.of
   course it's here, un minuto, prego.well, no, not just a minute, after
   all. make that dieci minuti, prego, 10 minutes. and you'd never guess
   all the other things that were turned up during the search. no
   ballots, but just about everything else gone uncounted for a few
   months.what a lot of stuff. stuff from 2000. the false millennium.
   cluttering up everything, you could hardly see the real millennium
   approaching over the piles of books, endless papers, clippings, screen
   cleaner, things tacked on the wall, calendars, clocks, interview
   tapes, notebooks, dictionaries and style manuals.in fact, it wasn't
   until after those forklift people had left that the phone was visible.
   no question who to call, of course. pronto?cnn: we asked ann
   humphries, etiquette expert and president of eticon, what to do about
   all this year-end clutter.ann humphries: clear it out. i'm talking
   about that cellophane tape that's peeling off. the file folders that
   are too old. the computer files hogging your hard drive. that corsage
   from seventh grade you still have posted on your tack board.there's a
   difference in being messy during the rush. when you're on a project
   and don't have time to put things away and re-file, that's fine. but
   i'm talking about the incremental clutter. the "that looks good, let
   me put it on this bookcase" stuff. sometimes you just have to part
   with something. and it's like inventory clearance: once you get
   started, it feels good.it's true you can go too far. but you have to
   risk that. ask yourself if something is worth lugging around. ask how
   long it's been since you touched it. ask yourself if you even knew you
   had it.and yes, some people will ridicule anyone they can classify as
   a "neat freak." we need a new phrase for that. (daniela offers maniaco
   della pulizia. this should catch on quickly. you read it here first.)
   what i'd like to have a reading on is whether people who put down
   "neat freaks" aren't just excusing themselves for being messy. the way
   you know a true "neat freak" is that when you get up to do something,
   you come back and your tea is gone. that's not what we're advocating
   here.now as you work on your own clutter, one of the good things is
   that your neighbor, who's a slob, might get the idea, too. you know
   how hard it is to suggest to somebody that a cleanup is in order. lead
   by example.better yet, if you're in a management position, have your
   department or whole company do a big cleanup together. allocate a
   half-day. then no one gets personally singled out, everybody pitches
   in.remember that this is no waste of time. it's as valuable to your
   company as sending out a brochure because of what it can save you in
   terms of lost-stuff time. set a date by which the staff has to have
   purged old things. don't forget the lobby, hallways, bathrooms --
   these spaces the public can get into at your business -- are all part
   of your image.if your refrigerator in the break room needs attention,
   get to that. even your board room can become a catch-all. see what's
   been left in there from that meeting back in june.it's a good donation
   outlet for charity, too. prisons and libraries and shelters can use
   books. even some toys can go to charitable outfits -- you know, those
   "star wars" action figures and pokemons on those cubicle walls?in
   fact, that's a whole topic here, in itself. these toys. you want to
   personalize your space but you don't want people to wonder if they're
   in a professional setting or a day care center. we all respect play
   because it keeps you creative. but when you have to dig through a toy
   chest to find things, then it's too much. you have to spend too much
   time dusting the toys. save your money for experiential things. go to
   wrestling matches.bookshelves, drawers, get all the pens together,
   paper clips together, good containers for your rubber bands, printer
   cartridges, disks, labels, enough file folders to file things. we need
   to be considerate of the fact that someone is paying you to do a job
   -- and if it takes you two hours to find something, that's both time
   and money wasted.work in concentric circles. files from 2000, you want
   nearest you because they're the ones you're likeliest to need. wipe
   off the phone, the cradle the receiver goes into, the fax machine, the
   box your floppies are in, the printer, the scanner.don't forget to
   clear out your voice mail, your e-mail, your mailing lists. rule of
   thumb: if you haven't used it in a year, do you need it? could you
   replace it if you needed it and had thrown it out? could you borrow
   it? -- maybe you don't need your own. don't forget the plants. that
   trailing ivy.and finally that box of magazines you've meant to read.
   aren't they just making you feel guilty because you can never get to
   them? you're carrying that box around like an anvil, beating yourself
   up for not getting to it. it comes down to something like office
   bloating. not good. charity or trash can, choose one and let them
   enjoy your clutter. you want it out of your work space. happy new
   year.(same to you, ann. and to cnn italia, buon anno.)

   ann humphries, founder and president of eticon, inc. and a certified
   professional consultant to management, includes several fortune 500
   companies among her clients. she's been featured in the wall street
   journal, fortune and money, and on cnn, cbs and lifetime tv. you can
   contact her at www.eticon.com.-- interview, porter anderson