CNN.com - Entertainment - Review: 'Dungeons & Dragons' - December  7, 2000
(cnn) -- "dungeons & dragons," which is based on a teen-age role-playing
   game that used to be all the rage, is like "star wars" with the flavor
   chewed out of it. that said, it's almost pointless for a critic to
   dismiss this sort of effects-laden fantasy film. the minute you do,
   the genre's pre-existing audience is out for blood -- if you don't
   like the movie, it's solely because you're not a fan of this type of
   escapism. it couldn't possibly be because the movie stinks. well, this
   one does. it's so poorly executed, you start to feel like you're
   watching the world's most expensive script run-through. director
   courtney solomon just sticks it up on the screen and hopes for the
   best. he seems incapable of building tension from scene to scene, and
   he's an extremely poor judge of comic relief. to top it all off,
   several of his cast members wouldn't look out of place in a burger
   king commercial. this is unimpressive filmmaking, no matter how
   enthralled you may be by computer imagery. justin whalin plays the
   hero, ridley freeborne. the story, for what it's worth, consists
   mostly of ridley and several sidekicks trying to keep the beloved
   empress savina (thora birch) in her position of power. whalin is quite
   a bit less than dashing, a real drawback when you consider ridley is
   essentially "dungeons & dragons"' luke skywalker figure. his
   all-powerful adversary is damodar (bruce paye), an armor-plated
   warrior who, in a move reminiscent of nancy sinatra, wears blue-gray
   lipstick. scores of computer-generated beasties are also thrown in for
   good measure. ridley's best buddy, a goofy coward named snails, is
   played by marlon wayans. the inexplicable box office bonanza of "scary
   movie" (2000) will keep wayans and his equally unnecessary brothers
   working for years to come, but his reliance on face-making and
   bug-eyed yelping is more suitable to painfully shallow satire than
   this movie's action-fantasy theatrics. wayans must have been a scream
   when he was in the second grade. someone should alert him that class
   was dismissed about 20 years ago. the continually complaining love
   interest, marina (zoe mclellan), is a promising apprentice at a magic
   school who takes it on the lam with ridley and snail when damodar
   kills her wizardly teacher. mclellan, to be charitable, is currently
   ill-equipped for movie stardom. her approach to the character consists
   of gasping a lot -- over and over and over again. when she's supposed
   to be afraid, she squinches up her face and tries to cry, but don't
   worry: it's not long before she's gasping again. incredibly enough,
   academy award winner jeremy irons is also on hand, playing the bad guy
   who wants to usurp empress savina's power. he's only around for a few
   minutes, just long enough to be properly displayed in the tv
   commercials. you'd think an actor of irons' stature would be
   embarrassed to play a mystically tinged scene with an obvious valley
   girl like birch. but irons snarls with such thespian abandon that
   birch was probably embarrassed. the only remotely memorable scene is
   an airborne battle featuring hundreds of nasty-looking dragons. they
   swoop and dive like living world war i planes, and the wipe-outs are
   pretty cool. everything else looks like clips from "krull" (1983).
   borderline inept, "dungeons & dragons" is one of the worst movies of
   the year. if it had only been released a few weeks later, it could
   have been one of the worst movies of next year. "dungeons & dragons"
   is violent, in a cartoonish way. it may frighten younger children, but
   kids today are pretty resilient. be warned: one character has snakes
   literally coming out of his ears. and you think you've got problems.
   rated pg-13. 107 minutes. new line cinema, which produced the film, is
   owned by time warner, which is the parent company of cnn.