CNN.com -  Analysis: Victory sends tremors through Europe - December 13, 2000
london, england (cnn) -- the extraordinary events that have led up to
   george w. bush taking the white house have not added to the authority
   of the 43rd president of the united states. the european union is
   currently obsessed with internal reforms. president vladimir putin is
   struggling to restore order and to achieve economic reforms in russia.
   japan is suffering a crisis of political leadership. against that
   background, and with the middle east in turmoil again, the world could
   do with a strong u.s. president. but the closeness of the bush-gore
   contest, the legal wrangles and the length of time taken to determine
   a result have further damaged a presidency already weakened by the
   impeachment proceedings against bill clinton. the new president will
   struggle to assert his authority domestically, let alone on the
   international scene. outsiders will fear a president with his eye from
   the start on mid-term elections and in thrall to the focus groups.
   despite the shower of congratulations now flowing, and the angling for
   early invitations to the united states to meet the new man in the
   white house, the arrival in the oval office of george w. bush will
   send tremors through europeís capitals. essentially it is a fear of
   the unknown. few european leaders have even met the governor of texas.
   none of them was going to tempt providence by saying so, but most had
   been hoping for a gore victory simply because many of them knew the
   vice president personally, they respected his knowledge of
   international affairs and they liked the idea of continuity. now they
   will have to get to know bush, a man who has hardly ever travelled
   outside his own country. the second reason for alarm in european
   capitals is that condoleeza rice, bushís foreign affairs guru and his
   choice for national security adviser, suggested during the campaign
   that a bush administration would pull back u.s. troops from worldwide
   peace-keeping duties. specifically, she suggested u.s. troops might be
   pulled back from bosnia and kosovo, leaving europe to take over more
   of their duties in the balkans. the bush team has sought to moderate
   worries, saying that no troops would be taken out of the balkans
   without the allies being consulted. but any such pull-back could lead
   to a dilution of americaís dominant role in nato and an uneasy
   relationship with a european union already developing its own defence
   dimension with a rapid reaction force of 60,000 troops. there were
   early spats between the clinton administration and europe over bosnia,
   and a repeat of those tensions is feared. thirdly, european leaders
   will be worried by bushís allegedly robust views on such issues such
   as global warming and climate change following the rows between the
   united states and the europeans at the recent hague conference, which
   broke up in acrimony. al gore had a reputation to defend as an
   environmental enthusiast, and although american politicians tangle
   with the gas-guzzling u.s. lifestyle at their peril, europeans would
   have expected him to be more co-operative than bush in seeking a
   compromise on greenhouse gases. a fourth cause of worry will be bushís
   expressed enthusiasm for the development of a new anti-missile shield
   for america, the so-called national missile defence (nmd) or "son of
   star wars" plan. there has been sharp criticism of such a plan by
   russiaís putin. chancellor gerhard schroeder of germany and president
   jacques chirac of france have backed his objections. they argue that
   nmd would lead to america abandoning the 1972 anti-ballistic missile
   treaty and to the danger of an escalating, and expensive, nuclear arms
   race as others felt impelled to follow. initially neither russia nor
   the other europeans will seek to pick a fight. indeed, chirac was one
   of those who sent his congratulations to bush on election night when
   he had been called the winner by the tv networks. robin cook, the
   british foreign secretary who was also caught out that night, said
   then that relations with america would remain strong. ìi am sure we
   can build the same relationship with the new president. none of the
   fundamentals have changed. we do have very strong common interests." a
   russian government spokesman quoted by the russian information agency
   that night said bush had the experience to ensure continued good
   relations with moscow. in a more general sense, many european leaders
   will be worried by the american election result because their
   administrations are mostly formed by parties of the centre left. with
   america frequently proving to be an ideological trend-setter, they
   will fear a similar mood spreading to europeís electors, being
   especially conscious that gore lost despite the democrats presiding
   over eight years of economic growth. british prime minister tony blair
   will be worried because he has had a particularly close relationship
   with clinton. they have jointly made the case for ìthird wayî
   politics, combining pro-business policies, tough lines on
   law-and-order issues and social justice measures. blairís conservative
   opponent, william hague, is one of the few europeans who has travelled
   to america to meet bush. hague openly backed bush in the u.s. election
   and has openly adopted some of his programme of "compassionate
   conservatism." he will be hoping for a payoff.