CNN.com - Career - 'Dune,' rising - November 30, 2000
(cnn) -- "i'd be lying to you if i said i never had ambitions to tackle
   something like this. of course i did. careers work in mysterious ways.
   but i never knew that i'd have the opportunity to do this kind of
   material. you get one of these maybe once in your
   career."writer-filmmaker john harrison has just articulated the power
   of "dune" itself. did you get it? to those who already know the work,
   it's as easily spotted as those burning eyes on harrison's characters,
   eyes gone bottomless blue from the coveted spice mÈlange.but for
   others, it's maybe hard to catch: harrison rushes on to credit the
   many artists, on- and off-camera, with whom he's collaborated on his
   new six-hour adaptation of the late frank herbert's masterwork --
   miljen (called "kreka") kljakovic's nouveau-baroque production design,
   academy award-winner ("amadeus") theodor pistek's
   rococo-regency/berber costuming. in its meticulous evocation of a
   universe both alien and native to us, "dune" is considered by many to
   be among the english language's most accomplished works normally
   classified as science fiction. for his part, harrison steers the
   shifting-sand perceptions of this 1965 novel -- and all 12 million
   copies -- straight out into the desert beauty of its
   not-quite-classifiable rarity. "i actually don't think of it as
   science fiction. it's epic adventure, not sci-fi. "mallory.
   shakespeare. 'beowolf.' aeschylus. this story doesn't have to be
   familiar to an audience to be properly told. it's referential. we have
   wonderful sets of guidelines for understanding this work." and so when
   his luminous, drum-pounding vision of "dune" opens its three-night
   premiere on sunday at 9 p.m. est on the sci fi channel, harrison says
   his greatest joy "will be to have some in the audience find this
   material for the first time."because it's not a story about
   technology," he says. "and it's not a simple-minded story. it's a
   complex story of revenge and larger destiny: it's a romance -- a
   'romance' in the epic sense of the word. this is a story about the
   human condition."so now go back to his first statement. when harrison
   was younger, studying acting in carnegie mellon university's
   theater-arts program in his hometown of pittsburgh, did he ever have
   ambitions of interpreting so sweeping an arc of classic contemporary
   literature as "dune?" -- "of course i did."of course he did. that's
   the secret of "dune." it's not cool to talk about it at the office
   watercooler, but we all nurture fantasies of getting a crack at the
   big work in our field, the real thing, the icon. that's the most
   potent part of "the human condition" harrison is talking about. and
   it's something herbert seeded, rare as that spice, into the mythic
   sands of "dune." the dream of the kwisatz haderach -- a fabulous
   glowing-eyed messiah -- can only be topped by the thought of being
   such an entity, discovering yourself to be the one who is "the
   shortening of the way." "we all know what this is," harrison says.
   it's that peculiar, nagging, scary desire to be bigger, better, more
   than we are, all that we could be, everything we think we sometimes
   glimpse in ourselves -- if we could just be in the right place ... at
   the right time ... on the right planet. "had i not got my lazy arse
   out of bed that morning ... ?" the one known to the desert fremen as
   the muad'dib has a mighty scottish dialect right now. in fact, it's
   too bad you won't hear much of it in the screen-sanded speech he uses
   in "dune." this dialect holds a mischief, a wink, a little key to this
   man's pleasure in the irony of his good luck."i was lying in bed with
   horrible flu," alec newman says, "when the call came through to go see
   john harrison. i thought, 'well this is ridiculous, it's a huge
   project, it'll be on in the states and i've got the flu -- it's
   ridiculous and i'm not going.' john had flown in that day and had seen
   another guy" for the role "and was telling wendy brazington, the u.k.
   casting director, 'i think i've had enough for today.' "so i was being
   reluctant. and he was being reluctant. but we both decided it might be
   all right." the hotel-room reading of a couple of scenes that newman
   managed to give harrison that day in london may very well end up
   making this glasgow-born actor's career. at the very least, it has
   given him a week's lead-up to the show's debut this weekend "doing
   what john tells me is known as the 'hollywood shuffle.'" newman turned
   26 on monday. "i'm not even that big a name in britain," he says
   matter-of-factly. but suddenly he has access to the swank offices of
   tinseltown. "it's like just having left drama school all over again,"
   he says. "it's actually quite nice, to come here and be able to relax
   and say hello, knowing that it's all fresh. then again, while i don't
   want to waste the opportunity of my work being seen, it's important
   for me not to get too over-excited, you know. "i'm proud of the work.
   in six hours, there's always going to be bits you wish you'd done
   another way, but that's the same for anyone involved. i figured this
   would be as good a time as any to come over," to california, "figure
   out how it all works. it's such a great opportunity for me. and, yes,
   i'm driving myself around on your roads -- driving myself around the
   bend." you're hearing, naturally, the traditional actor's superstition
   -- you don't say who you're seeing for which gigs. you're also hearing
   newman's quiet way: he's making hay while the sun of this glistening
   new production shines on him. this is what you do with a starring role
   like paul atreides in "dune." you try to turn it into a career
   catapult to something even greater."there was an interesting moment at
   the airport," he's talking about lax, los angeles international, "when
   i was pulling off on the wrong side of the road. i thought it was the
   radio. but it wasn't the radio, actually, it was the people beeping at
   me. some very colorful language," from other drivers, "my welcome to
   los angeles. " newman's paul atreides is luke skywalker with a mind --
   a problematic, layered figure, at times an anti-hero. before the force
   was with anyone, frank herbert's paul was saying, "i will face my fear
   ... and it will pass through me .. and when it's gone there will be
   nothing ... only i will remain."the actor says he didn't know "dune"
   before getting into the project. "it was a bad thing because i had
   lots and lots of work to do very fast. but it was good because i had
   no prejudice about it."after i was cast, friends were quoting parts of
   it to me. 'fear is the mind-killer.' all my peers had it, but i'd
   missed it. i was always a big 'star wars' fan but i started to realize
   that 'dune' is far more rich and more complicated. so it was a great
   shock. i gradually found what i was involved in."i was on a fast burn.
   before i went back to the script, i'd read the book three times. i set
   about getting to know each part of the story as well as i could. it's
   a really vast journey paul makes, a huge spiritual journey. i knew i'd
   need to know it inside and out -- that was a given, being that we'd
   shoot it out of sequence. "so i arrived in prague" where much of the
   shooting was done "and set up an office in my room, i was quite proud
   of it. went to the gym every day, i was terrified i'd look fat. the
   guy playing feyd, matt keeslar (feyd has a pivotal fight with paul) is
   incredibly fit. so i figured, 'if i'm going to be half-naked opposite
   this guy, then don't eat that chocolate. and stay off the beer.'
   didn't quite manage that last one."newman knows he'll be scrutinized
   by the worldwide cult of purists who frequent "dune" sites on the web.
   the actor stands 5 feet 9 inches, a point in his favor in playing
   paul, who in the book is a teen-ager. so towering is the meaning
   finally vested in the character by herbert that it's easy to forget
   the kwisatz haderach is really just a kid at the vortex of "countless
   delicate decisions.""i just hope people appreciate how faithful we've
   been to the book," newman says. "john hasn't changed any plot line, or
   added anything to make it easier to understand the material. there's
   no need. in the first part, you gather so much information. and then
   the last bit just goes at such a lick."in our interactive "dune"
   primer, we walk you through a few of the basic terms and names and
   plot features of frank herbert's book. but as harrison likes to point
   out, most of the components of the story are remarkably clear, with
   their linguistic roots in some sturdily earthly classics. the "bene
   gesserit "order of mentally cloistered devotÈes, for example, carries
   in its name echoes of "benevolent" and "jesuit." even paul's royal
   seat, the house atreides, is named with unmistakable proximity to the
   greeks' great house of atreus. and while many like to refer to "dune"
   as an ecological novel -- focusing on the spice mÈlange, water and the
   relation of conservation to power and sustenance -- harrison and
   newman comment more on the messianic theme."there's a spoiled young
   prince named paul" harrison says. "he's lived a life of privilege.
   adores his father (william hurt as duke leto atreides). he's taken to
   a far-off wilderness place where his father, as an honorable man, must
   do the bidding of the emperor (giancarlo giannini). conspiracies
   abound. sure enough, the father is assassinated, the prince is left to
   die in the desert. he's adopted by the indigenous tribe (the fremen),
   which is looking for a messiah. the young prince learns their ways,
   takes revenge on those who murdered his father, but grows and realizes
   he has an even larger destiny at stake. becomes the leader of the
   desert tribe. and finally triumphs over his enemies."newman says the
   challenge of playing paul muad'dib, that prince-gone-conqueror, is "to
   resist any hero element. the story is far from optimistic at the end.
   paul atreides unleashes this jihad across the universe. he knows and
   the audience knows that at the end of the book it's not over. herbert
   wrote another five books on it. every decision has a good and a bad,
   everything is compromised, as in life. he's united with his lover
   chani (barbora kodetov·). but there's this princess irulan character
   (julie cox), who represents the unification of the universe through
   marriage. paul's horrific to chani at some points and he's quite
   reckless."harrison says he's at work on the screenplay for a sequel
   that producer new amsterdam entertainment likely will have him make as
   a single miniseries treating the next two books in herbert's canon.
   "dune messiah" (1969) and "children of dune" (1976) complete the
   atreides trilogy. what he's done in this film, harrison says, was all
   bought for "around $20 million." he makes it look far more costly, he
   says, by working in a highly stylized and theatrical mode --
   soundstage settings, for example, "instead of weeks on location in the
   deserts of morocco." the entire piece plays with a keen stage
   consciousness, in fact, vittorio storaro's cinematography almost
   stalking the actors at times like another blue-eyed character in a
   scene.harrison, like newman, is at pains to insist that the film he's
   made is faithful to herbert's concept. my intention was not to make
   'john harrison's "dune,"' but to make the most faithful adaptation i
   could."since july, the sci fi channel's web site has logged some
   frequently very pointed questions from "dune" aficionados about the
   new production, along with harrison's patient and detailed answers.
   "are we going to see a new look for the sandworms?" one question
   reads. "will the 'weirding way' be accurately depicted in your movie?"
   reads another. "what assurances can you offer herbert's fans that his
   vision will be conveyed as written?" "what do you hope to accomplish
   with a second film about 'dune?'"that last question refers to the 1984
   david lynch film which starred kyle maclachlan as paul."perhaps one of
   the things i'll get criticized for," harrison says, "is the choice not
   to use the internal monologue that herbert used in the book. if you
   use the voice-over narrative -- if you use it to tell the emotional
   state of a character while you're watching that character -- it has
   the effect of stopping the motion picture. movies are images and
   moving pictures. novels are words."but at any point a change was
   needed from what's in frank herbert's book in order to get it
   successfully onto film, harrison says, "that change comes from the
   text, not out of thin air, to fashion the story into a more linear
   cinematic narrative."in both men, harrison and newman, you hear a
   gathering excitement as more than a year of work heads for sunday
   night's premiere. "it's silly to be talking about the whole universe,
   standing here in beverly hills, isn't it?" newman suddenly says with a
   laugh. "to tell you the truth, i have an aversion to sunglasses and
   parties."what viewers will see in the united states on the sci fi
   channel is some 30 minutes shorter than a european version that
   screens some nudity as the fremen get into and out of their
   stillsuits. harrison says he trimmed about 10 minutes off each night's
   installment both for reasons of that nudity and for the time
   restrictions of u.s. commercial television. "eventually, though," he
   says, "i think the full version will be seen here in the states, too.
   i just hope the fans of 'dune' love this. and i hope many more people
   discover the material through it."and i would hope that frank herbert
   is smiling down on this and enjoying what i've done."know then that it
   is the year 10,191 ...