CNN.com - Technology - Comdex: iRobot is real-life R2-D2 - November 15, 2000
las vegas, nevada (cnn) -- irobot, the closest thing yet to a personal
   r2-d2, is roving comdex 2000. looking like a sportier version of
   nasa's mars rover, the first wireless, web-connected robot sees, hears
   and speaks for you. "i was inspired to go into this field by seeing
   'star wars' and the r2-d2 character," said helen greiner, co-founder
   of irobot. "we wanted robots to be friendly and for people to think of
   them as a helping hand around the house." irobot has a digital video
   camera and a built-in sonar so the operator can "see" from the
   viewpoint of the robot. it also has a microphone and speakers, through
   which the operator both listens and speaks. a web browser enables it
   to be controlled from anywhere in the world; from within the room,
   irobot functions by remote control. the 45-pound robot is agile,
   avoiding obstacles and climbing stairs using its front flipper. the
   operator steers it by pointing and clicking to a destination. and
   irobot's beady laser eyes and limited animation make it look friendly
   -- a trait its makers fully intended. it can make eye contact with a
   seated person by standing up and extending its neck, and has a small
   vocabulary to express itself. irobot runs on the linux operating
   system and is a fully functioning computer. a battery fuels it for
   about one hour, after which you can recharge by steering it to a
   charging station. the 2.4 ghz irobot wirelessly connects to the
   internet at 700 kbps, and it has a range of up to 150 feet indoors. it
   requires a full-time internet connection providing 300 kbps of
   outgoing bandwidth or more. greiner dispels any concern that this
   $5,000 robot might be another step forward for "big brother." "you can
   read a bedtime story to your kids ... you can make sure the dog didn't
   eat the geraniums," greiner said. "people know the robot is in the
   room, and they can see the red light flashing when it tapes."