CNN.com - Entertainment - Digital revolution comes to independents - October 17, 2000
los angeles, california (cnn) -- george lucas has wrapped principal
   photography on "star wars: episode ii" and now is in the elaborate
   post-production phase. the movie, slated for release in the summer of
   2002, has been filmed entirely without film -- recorded digitally to
   help ease the computer-generated special effects into practically
   every frame of the finished product. even with digital help, the
   latest "star wars" installment will require the best of mainframes at
   sprocket systems and industrial light and magic. they'll whirring for
   months to complete the effects. this is the common image of the future
   of digital film: starships and dinosaurs and budgets of galactic size,
   special-effects blockbusters that have been changed forever by this
   latest wave of technology. but the changes don't stop there. the
   little movie, the independent film, may be even more profoundly
   affected by digital techniques than the big-budget flicks. "urbania,"
   a very-low-budget film from first-time director jon shear, may better
   illustrate the long-term effects of the digital revolution than lucas'
   starry epic. shear's independent effort was the first to be shot
   entirely on inexpensive super 16 film, then transferred in its
   entirety to the digital domain for post-production. after that, it was
   reconstituted on 35-millimeter film for release. even his
   post-production house told him he was crazy to do it that way, says
   shear -- until he explained his goals: he wanted to construct a film
   in which images danced in and out of reality. he also wanted total
   control of his film's light, color saturation and color. "we were able
   to sit here and basically go through every frame and decide what we
   want to do with color," says shear. "that's an opportunity that most
   people don't get, and as a filmmaker or someone who wants to
   communicate something, that's a wonderful opportunity." it's also a
   heavy task. directing is an art form that carries immense
   responsibilities, often with little control to carry out those duties.
   "you don't control the weather, you don't control whether your actors
   know their lines -- although all our actors did," says shear. "you
   don't control the labs. everything gets out of your control." yet
   shear was able to manage more control when he went digital. "in a
   technical world where you have so little control, we had as much as
   you possibly can," he says. the price for controlling every shade and
   shadow, every color and tinge in every frame of film? according to
   reports, "urbania" was shot in four months for less than $300,000, a
   sum that also paid for the participation of one of the leading
   special-effects houses, cinesite. "if we can do it ... with our
   constraints, then anybody can," he says. many are. the coen brothers
   used a similar technique with "o brother, where art thou?" -- shooting
   with film, but going entirely digital in post-production. that
   technique created an almost hand-tinted look like postcards from the
   1930s, roger deakins, the film's director of photography, tells this
   month's american cinematographer magazine. digital techniques achieve
   other looks, too. alfred hitchcock, for example, tried to make a film
   that looked like one continual take, the 1948 thriller "rope." it took
   mike figgis and four synchronized digital cameras to accomplish the
   feat this year with "timecode." "dancer in the dark," a low-budget
   independent released recently, contains a scene that gave filmmaker
   lars von trier more technical power than cecil b. demille possessed
   when he filmed the "ten commandments" (1925). using inexpensive
   digital cameras, von trier shot a fantasy dance sequence on a moving
   train from 100 points of view, using 100 cameras. so give the little
   guys their due. when "star wars: episode ii" arrives in the summer of
   2002, it will no doubt be filled with eye-popping effects. when
   "jurassic park iii" presents another stampede of dinosaurs, it will
   unquestionably be awe-inspiring cinema. but the digital revolution
   also has reached the hinterlands of independent, low-budget
   production. it, too, will never be the same.