Next administration may face military dilemma - October 2, 2000
washington (cnn) -- next to the seemingly endless debate over federal
   spending priorities -- the standardized clash between fiscal
   conservatism and "tax-and-spend liberalism" -- perhaps no policy issue
   better frames the differences between the two major parties than
   defense. and the defense gulf has only widened between the parties in
   the eight years bill clinton has occupied the oval office. the
   military, the majority republicans in congress insist, has been
   subjected to a relentless "drawdown" through clinton's two-term
   tenure, resulting in equipment shortages, degradation in service
   members' quality of life and deep morale troubles. the clinton
   administration's policy of sending american troops to long, involved
   peacekeeping missions has stretched a severely limited force to its
   bare limits, they say. the united states military, still the most
   powerful the world over, is but a shadow of its former self, according
   to republican nominee george w. bush. the texas governor, scion of a
   former president who was a world war ii fighter pilot, one-time head
   of the central intelligence agency and architect of the 1991 coalition
   that executed the gulf war, has campaigned contending that spending on
   the u.s. defense infrastructure has fallen to perilously low levels.
   the military has not been a priority of the clinton administration,
   bush said at his nomination speech in philadelphia this past summer,
   and in a speech at that same gathering, former gulf war commander h.
   norman schwarzkopf even hinted that the clinton administration has
   treated the military with disdain while pushing its members to the
   brink of exhaustion. to members of the military of all ranks, bush is
   fond of saying, "hold on, help is on the way." at first blush, bush
   might be expected to promote a renewed commitment to the military. the
   tactic worked for ronald reagan in 1980 when he unseated a democratic
   administration perceived as weak on defense, and much of bush's core
   support -- conservatives, men, veterans and other sub-sections of the
   senior population -- favor anything that will boost the outlook and
   prospects of service members. the republican nominee supports an
   increase in defense spending that would include a $1 billion hike in
   service member pay, and would extract some $45 billion from the
   federal budget surplus to refurbish military housing, stock up on
   spare parts and new equipment, and resupply front-line as well as
   reserve units. the nation's military, bush has said on the stump, must
   be reformulated from the ground up. combat units, bush told a
   veterans' group in fairborn, ohio, at the beginning of september, must
   be faster, more lethal and harder to find. the sort of massive
   deployment undertaken prior to the start of desert storm in 1991, bush
   has said, will not suit the post-cold war world. to that end, bush
   supports spending an additional $20 billion on research and
   development for post-cold war weapons systems. it is time, bush has
   said, for a president to pay close attention to the recommendations of
   the "planners" in the pentagon. similarly, vice president al gore, the
   democratic nominee, supports increases in defense spending, including
   increases in military pay and housing. earlier this month, the gore
   campaign said the vice president would dedicate some $100 billion of
   the surplus to defense. gore has called for expanded use of the
   quadrennial defense review to set a course for military strategy and
   to design an adequate force structure -- and to accompany that effort,
   gore seeks to streamline the operations of the defense department. the
   vice president also supports continued investment in technology and
   defense industries, arguing that the private sector should be charged
   with providing the military with innovative, cost-conscious
   technologies. but is this just about money? a funny thing happened as
   bush and gore made their separate ways toward tuesday's first debate
   in boston. the joint chiefs spoke up, and let fly one head-turning
   fact. joint chiefs chairman gen. hugh shelton told the senate armed
   services committee last wednesday that the pentagon's budget for
   procurement of new weapons -- currently some $60 billion a year -- is
   inadequate. but $60 billion is the most money ever appropriated to the
   pentagon for new weapons systems. "i do not have the specific dollar
   figure today," shelton told senators, "but in succeeding months that
   answer should become clearer. but one thing i think is obvious is that
   $60 billion will not be enough to get the job done, given our current
   strategy and force structure." the lesson for the next president would
   seem to be quite clear: throwing money at the pentagon will only
   achieve so much -- even if the pentagon continues to ask for more. the
   culture, the long-term strategy, the mindset of the nation's defense
   structure is likely in need of overhaul. "current readiness is
   problematical, but future readiness is in serious trouble," said
   joseph j. collins, senior fellow at the center for strategic and
   international studies. "in the last decade, we have spent a lot to
   keep our force busy and ready, but we have not spent nearly enough on
   modernization, personnel, and facilities," collins said. "the next
   administration will face tough choices as it tries to maintain current
   readiness, replace old equipment, and modernize all at the same time.
   "in all likelihood, it will have to spend more and at the same time
   make significant, politically sensitive cuts in the basing
   infrastructure and the purchase of new systems," collins said. if what
   collins suggests is true, the long-term goals of the military will
   have to be assessed. in the years leading up to the gulf war, as the
   last dangers of the cold war melted and then evaporated, the military
   was designed and intended to conduct full-scale operations on two
   separate fronts. as readiness was challenged by funding cuts and
   peacekeeping deployments, experts, including higher-ups inside the
   military, determined that the two-front war strategy would be
   impossible to maintain. many argued that a single-front conflict would
   be difficult to sustain. bush and gore have each offered limited plans
   to affect change in the four services, but neither has articulated a
   vision of just what the military should be expected to accomplish in
   the next decade and beyond. bush has spoken of revamping combat-ready
   units with new technologies and mobility, saying such a force would
   act as a deterrent. "the mission of the u.s. military will be to train
   in order to fight and win war, therefore, preventing war from
   happening in the first place," bush said last month. and the military,
   bush has hinted, would cease to be a tool of diplomacy should he claim
   the presidency. he has said that, as president, he would would order
   an immediate review of overseas deployments to ensure that they have
   clear objectives. gore's intentions are similarly murky. while the
   vice president does not often outline defense details on the stump,
   his web site says he seeks to establish an "information age" military
   "that fully exploits america's strategic advantages in people and
   technology and meets the range of international challenges that the
   u.s. faces in a global era. either way, it seems inevitable that the
   new will clash with the old in the long halls of the pentagon the when
   the next administration settles in. that battle is already taking
   place in one arena -- dominated by calls for a national ballistic
   missile defense system. ballistics missile defense endeavors are
   regarded by some as the last true holdover of the cold war era. the
   reagan administration mounted its massive strategic defense initiative
   (sdi) research and development effort -- dubbed "star wars" by
   democratic opponents in congress -- to create a robust defense system
   capable of destroying incoming nuclear missiles as they entered the
   atmosphere over their intended targets. anti-ballistic missile systems
   have come and gone in various forms over the course of the last 15
   years, with new designs introduced periodically to keep pace with the
   dizzying geopolitical changes the globe has experienced since the
   collapse of the soviet empire. missile defense has fallen down the
   pentagon's list of priorities in the last decade as diplomatic and
   technical hurdles have risen up. the creation of any system to protect
   the continental united states would certainly abrogate the 1974
   anti-ballistic missile accord signed with the soviets -- and still in
   effect as russia maintains a formidable nuclear arsenal. in addition,
   recent tests of a variety of interceptor missiles have yielded less
   than stellar results, prompting president clinton to delay on a
   decision to go forward with a missile defense system, leaving it up to
   the next president to decide what may be best. bush has expressed an
   interest in deployment of both "theater" and national systems at the
   earliest possible date, and would cancel the abm treaty with russia if
   a new agreement cannot be reached. gore, on the other hand, has called
   for a limited ground-based system, but would not break the 1974 pact
   with russia to deploy one. as technology changes, and as borders and
   governments continue to change worldwide, the pentagon must struggle
   to stay ahead of a series of trends while the issue is debated on the
   political stage. ambassador henry f. cooper, chairman of high frontier
   inc., a nonpartisan, non-profit "educational entity," dedicated to the
   establishment of a national missile defense, sees an immediate need to
   end the discourse and get to work. "it should be more of an election
   issue because most people in the country believe they should be
   protected, they get angry when they find out that they aren't," cooper
   said. cooper directed sdi efforts for the administration of former
   president george bush, but is just as disdainful of george w. bush's
   current position as he was of that of gore -- this, while
   acknowledging that he has contacts within the bush campaign. "bush is
   kicking the can, though he looked earlier like he might be serious
   about it," cooper said. "he's talking about waiting and about the
   feasibility of a system." the abm treaty must be abolished, cooper
   said, if an effective system is to be founded. "in the nearest term,
   other than russia and china, which both have missiles that could hit
   us, north korea, iran, iraq [pose threats to the united states]."
   "russia and china and north korea are also selling missile components
   on the open market," cooper said. "i suppose they aren't talking about
   it because it would be very hard to explain," cooper said, arguing
   both candidates are avoiding the issue. "i would say to voters, today
   you're absolutely defenseless, and will be until we change or get rid
   of the abm." "the bottom line is we are not serious, and we had better
   get serious," cooper warned. "we don't have another bunch of years to
   wait."