CNN.com -  U.S. missile defense undergoes new tests - September 28, 2000
washington (cnn) -- the pentagon conducted two more tests of the national
   missile defense system over the pacific ocean early thursday. one of
   the tests involved the system's ability to tell warheads from decoys,
   but neither included the interception of incoming missiles. the
   pentagon said the results of the tests have not yet been evaluated.
   the nmd system, which is opposed by russia and china as possibly in
   violation of arms treaties, failed to intercept missiles in two
   previous tests. president clinton subsequently declined to give the
   system's deployment the go-ahead, effectively leaving the decision to
   his successor. in the first of thursday's tests, two air force
   minuteman-3 missiles were fired from vandenberg air force base in
   california toward kwajalein island in the pacific. the missiles
   released 20 different-shaped objects into space to test the ability of
   a prototype radar on kwajalein to find real warheads in a missile
   attack, pentagon spokesman ken bacon said. the second flight tested
   electronic components that will be used early next year in an attempt
   to hit a dummy warhead in space with a weapon fired from kwajalein.
   the nmd system is designed to protect the united states against
   ballistic missile attacks from rogue nations. it is projected to cost
   anywhere from $25 billion to $60 billion. a $100 million u.s. test of
   the system in july failed when a u.s. "hit-to-kill" weapon did not
   separate from its booster rocket and intercept a dummy warhead over
   the pacific ocean. an october 1999 test was successful but one the
   previous january failed. u.s. secretary of defense william cohen
   supported the system's deployment, and the air force's missile defense
   chief, in testimony on capitol hill after clinton's announcement, said
   there was no technical reason it would not work. lt. gen. ronald
   kadish, director of the ballistic missile defense organization, told a
   house of representatives subcommittee that 93 percent of the system's
   "critical engagement functions" have been proven to work properly.
   thursday's radar test addressed one criticism of the system: its
   possible inability to cope with decoys and other countermeasures
   hostile nations might use to overcome u.s. missile defenses. in his
   appearance before the house government reform subcommittee, kadish
   said the nmd could deal with decoys. "given our extensive toolbox and
   the 40 years of experience the united states has with offensive and
   defensive weapons systems, we know how to play the
   countermeasures/counter-countermeasures game," kadish said, "and we
   know how to win." the u.s. has been developing a missile defense
   system since the early 1980s. ronald reagan's strategic defense
   initiative, which became commonly known as the "star wars" program,
   called for a shield of lasers to knock thousands of enemy missiles out
   of the sky. the system presently being developed would target
   individual warheads and shoot them down at high altitudes.