CNN.com - Entertainment - Big screen classics to make a return - September 23, 2000
london, england (cnn) -- film classics including some like it hot and
   breakfast at tiffany's are set to return to the big screen as part of
   a two-year project to bring the movies to a new generation of
   cinema-goers. the british film institute (bfi) is to create new prints
   of the films which will then be re-released across the united kingdom.
   the marilyn monroe and audrey hepburn classics will be revived in the
   project's first year, along with don't look now starring donald
   sutherland and julie christie, and alfie -- the film which propelled
   sir michael caine to international stardom. bfi director jon teckman
   said the four titles chosen were among those most frequently requested
   by audiences at the bfi national film theatre as well as by festival
   programmers around the world. "there is no better time than this. the
   cinema-going audience is growing every year with the over-35s the
   fastest growing audience sector," he said at the project launch in
   london on wednesday. but copies of many 20th century productions no
   longer exist and in other cases the quality of the film print is so
   poor they cannot be used. "film naturally deteriorates over time,
   especially if heavily used," added teckman. each of the films will
   have a new premiere with the first -- some like it hot -- opening with
   a gala screening in london on october 5 and at selected cinemas from
   october 20. this will be followed by breakfast at tiffany's which will
   be released on valentine's day next year -- 40 years to the day since
   its first release. ian watmore, of anderson consulting, which is
   backing the project, said: "with film more popular than ever in the uk
   today, we are delighted to be associated with an industry which has
   innovation, creativity and technology at its core." a further four
   films will be chosen during the second year of the project. the bfi is
   confident that the re-releases will be welcomed by the public
   following the successful re-release in the 1990s of the exorcist,
   grease and the original star wars trilogy. it said that while the
   blockbusters were vital for attracting large audiences, the top 20
   alone could not sustain the industry and a greater range of product
   was needed. *photographs from alfie and breakfast at tiffany's
   courtesy of the british film institute. from cnn.com europe