CNN.com - Clinton leaving missile defense to next president - September  1, 2000
washington -- administration sources tell cnn that president clinton has
   decided to leave to his successor the tough decision on beginning
   deployment of a national defense against ballistic missile attack. the
   president planned to announce his decision in a speech friday at
   georgetown university. work on the project, known as national missile
   defense, will go forward with additional testing of a "kill vehicle"
   to destroy warheads in flight and development of other key components,
   including a new booster rocket. in the face of strong objections from
   russia and reservations among many democrats in congress, clinton
   chose not to authorize the pentagon to award contracts to begin
   building a new high-powered radar in the aleutian islands, the
   officials said, speaking only on condition of anonymity. the radar is
   an essential element of the missile defense system because it would
   track incoming warheads. awarding the contracts this fall would have
   allowed the radar construction to begin next spring -- a timetable
   that, on paper at least, would have kept the missile defense project
   on track to completion by 2005. by putting off the initial step,
   clinton in effect has pushed back the 2005 target date by at least one
   year. other details of clinton's decision were not immediately
   available, including whether the 2005 target date has been reset for
   2006 or 2007. clinton had said he would consider four main factors in
   deciding whether to proceed with the deployment process now: technical
   feasibility, cost, the urgency of a missile threat against the united
   states and the impact on arms control of proceeding with missile
   defense. the proposed national missile defense, projected to cost
   about $60 billion, is designed to protect all 50 states against attack
   by a limited number of long-range ballistic missiles from north korea
   or the middle east. it is a scaled-down version of the global missile
   defense pursued during the reagan administration that came to be known
   as star wars for its focus space-based lasers and other exotic
   weaponry. in weighing his decision, clinton faced conflicting
   pressures. republicans in congress have pushed hard for years for a
   national missile defense, and last year they gained passage of a law
   requiring the pentagon to deploy such a system as soon as
   "technologically feasible." the anti-missile testing program, however,
   has suffered numerous technological setbacks, including a failed
   flight test in july. clinton based his decision on recommendations
   from defense secretary william cohen, who is perhaps the
   administration's strongest proponent of national missile defense, as
   well as secretary of state madeleine albright and the president's
   national security adviser, sandy berger. cohen has not publicly
   discussed his recommendation, but he had indicated recently that he
   saw reason to consider whether going forward now might put undue
   pressure on clinton's successor to affirm or reverse the decision.
   putting off the start of construction of the x-band radar on shemya
   island in the aleutians gives the clinton administration and its
   successor more time to negotiate a deal on the anti-ballistic missile
   treaty. the 1972 treaty prohibits a national defense against ballistic
   missiles, and the administration has tried unsuccessfully to persuade
   moscow to amend the treaty to allow a limited defensive system.