CNN.com - Fake 'Star Wars' trailer surpasses 1 million downloads - August 11, 2000
(cnn) -- not long ago, in a galaxy near here, a dedicated fan used his
   skills to create a fake movie trailer for the upcoming "star wars:
   episode ii," hoping to convince people that leonardo dicaprio would be
   perfect for the lead role. he placed it on the web at theforce.net and
   hoped it would get noticed, possibly getting him a break in hollywood.
   but when canadian actor hayden christensen was chosen to play anakin
   skywalker, the fan -- who goes by the moniker "anonymous director" --
   opted to redo the trailer with new scenes and enhanced effects. the
   end result is a seamless and professional-looking montage of scenes,
   complete with an epic soundtrack. the word is out and since the real
   "star wars: episode ii" just began production in australia, fans eager
   to whet their jedi appetite are flocking to the site. jeff yankey, web
   site editor at theforce.net, said the response to the trailer has been
   overwhelming. at last count, it had been downloaded more than 1
   million times from theforce.net and another site that agreed to post
   it. and the people at lucasfilm ltd. couldn't be happier. "people keep
   asking us about the controversy," said lucasfilm spokeswoman jeanne
   cole. "there is no controversy. we look at it as an homage from our
   fans of star wars. we're fine with it." cole said that so long as
   people don't profit from their creation and it's in good taste then
   it's entirely acceptable. the only snag yankey and his colleagues
   encountered was from a few fans who were initially upset because they
   thought theforce.net was trying to fool people into thinking it was
   legitimate. "at no time did we ever say this is the real thing," said
   yankey. "overall it's been extremely positive." a few years ago this
   type of trailer wasn't possible, said yankey, since the limited
   bandwidth would have discouraged people from downloading it. now, the
   technology to create the trailer is less expensive and the means to
   view it is more widespread. the nearly two-minute trailer itself is 5
   mb for the compressed version, or 13 mb for the full-sized one.
   quicktime 4.0 is needed to watch it. as for the 25-year-old who
   created the trailer, he prefers to remain unnamed because some of the
   scenes in the trailer were taken from other films without permission.
   borrowed clips were taken from films such as "braveheart" and "dune."
   however, during an e-mail interview, anonymous director says he hasn't
   heard anything from those studios yet. to obtain the polished results,
   anonymous director says he worked for two months during his free time
   using an avid media composer for the editing and sound design, and a
   discreet logic flame machine for the visual effects, like adding
   lightsabers. "i just wanted to restore a little faith in this powerful
   movie saga which i have loved for so long," wrote anonymous director.
   "and fans need something to tide them over the next two years until
   the film is released."