CNN.com - Entertainment - Actor Sir Alec Guinness dies at 86 - August 7, 2000
london -- british actor sir alec guinness, whose repertoire in a 66-year
   career ranged from shakespeare to "star wars," died saturday in
   england, a spokesman for the king edward vii hospital in midhurst said
   monday. the cause of death for guinness, 86, was not given by the
   hospital. born april 2, 1914 in london, guinness was an illegitimate
   child who did not know the name on his birth certificate was guinness
   until he was 14. "i have to admit that my search for a father has been
   my constant speculation for 50 years," he said. his father, whose
   identity he never learned, provided money for private schools, but not
   university. guinness worked briefly as an advertising copywriter,
   spending his salary on theater tickets and surviving on sandwiches and
   apples given him by friends at work. after scraping together the funds
   for some elementary lessons, he attended the fay compton school of
   acting. guinness had some of his first stage roles in actor john
   gielgud's plays. in one of them, guinness met actress merula salaman,
   whom he married in 1938. they had a son matthew and remained married,
   living in a country house in petersfield, 50 miles southwest of
   london. guinness first made his mark in films in the ealing studio
   comedies of the late 1940s and the 1950s --"the man in the white
   suit," "the lavender hill mob," "the lady killers," and in "kind
   hearts and coronets." in that black comedy he played the entire
   d'ascoyne family -- in his words, "eight speaking parts, one
   non-speaking cameo and a portrait in oils." guinness had large,
   expressive blue eyes and otherwise unremarkable features -- "a
   player's countenance, designed for whatever might turn up," critic
   j.c. trewin said. "i had countless first impressions of him,"
   playwright ronald harwood wrote. "each time i saw him, in films, later
   in the theater, i had the uncanny feeling i had never before watched
   him act." with "the bridge on the river kwai" in 1957 he won an oscar
   for his performance as the disciplined, inflexible col. nicholson in a
   world war ii japanese prison camp. a second oscar came in 1980, when
   he was awarded for "advancing the art of screen acting through a host
   of memorable and distinguished performances." guinness had a long film
   partnership with director david lean, beginning in 1946 as herbert
   pocket in "great expectations," through "oliver twist," "the bridge on
   the river kwai," "lawrence of arabia," "dr. zhivago," and finally "a
   passage to india" in 1984. his 1977 role as obi-wan kenobi introduced
   him to a new generation of filmgoers and made him financially secure.
   "i might never have been heard of again if it hadn't been for 'star
   wars'," he said. he was seldom recognized in public. in one of the
   stories he told about himself, guinness checked his hat and coat at a
   restaurant and asked for a claim ticket. "it will not be necessary,"
   the attendant said. guinness later retrieved his garments, put his
   hand in the coat pocket and found a slip of paper on which was
   written, "bald with glasses." in 1985 he told the guardian newspaper
   that he hoped by the end of his life to have put everything in order
   -- "a kind of little bow, tied on life. and i can see myself drifting
   off into eternity, or nothing, or whatever it may be, with all sorts
   of bits of loose string hanging out of my pocket. why didn't i say
   this or do that, or why didn't i reconcile myself with someone? or
   make sure that someone whom i like was all right in every way, either
   financially or, i don't know..."