CNN.com - ASIANOW - India heightens security ahead of Independence Day 
 - August 14, 2000
srinagar, india (cnn) -- as tensions mounted across the country, indian
   troops implemented an intensive security operation ahead of tuesday --
   the nation's independence day. state radio reported on monday that
   police raided suspected hot spots and stepped up monitoring along the
   open border with nepal. police also increased searches of vehicles in
   the capital, new delhi. the action followed a string of deadly
   bombings and a gun battle over the weekend and several bombings and
   massacres in indian-controlled kashmir in the past two weeks. police
   in srinagar -- the winter capital of jammu and kashmir state in
   indian-controlled kashmir -- were using dogs to search for explosives.
   the officers were also conducting random checks for militant
   activities. "we are doing a cordon to sanitize the area because of
   independence day celebrations, to find out if there are any hideouts
   of militants," k.c. pahari, an indian border security official, told
   cnn over the weekend. independence day celebrations in india -- held
   august 15 to mark the end in 1947 of britain's rule over the country
   -- have traditionally been a cause for high alert. concern this year,
   however, had been heightened by a series of massacres and bomb attacks
   that have left nearly 200 people dead in indian-controlled kashmir in
   the past two weeks. pakistan marked its independence day on monday,
   with calls by its leaders for india to begin peace talks with
   pakistan. pakistani military ruler gen. pervez musharraf also said
   pakistan supported militants in kashmir. pakistan had also been ruled
   by britain. indian police sources said they had received intelligence
   information that pakistan-backed militants planned to disrupt
   independence day festivities. pakistani officials have said they only
   provide moral support to the militants. security has been tightened in
   india's capital, and especially at red fort in old delhi, where indian
   prime minister atal bihari vajpayee was scheduled to give his
   independence day address. more than 50,000 police officers were placed
   on high alert in new delhi, and many movie theaters, bus stops,
   hotels, parks and high-rise buildings were being searched in an
   around-the-clock operation. police said last week that they had seized
   a bomb, set to explode on independence day, and a cache of arms,
   explosive devices and detonators while raiding a militant hideout in
   kashmir. several militant groups in kashmir had vowed to step up their
   attacks leading up to india's independence day, and, in response,
   indian government officials had been urged to take a tougher response.
   on sunday, at least 22 people were killed and 52 others were wounded
   in a string of land mine explosions and gun battles in jammu and
   kashmir state. the hezb-ul mujahedeen, the largest separatist group in
   kashmir, claimed responsibility for those attacks. in the attacks, two
   land mines were exploded under buses carrying paramilitary troops near
   kud, a village 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of jammu. five border
   guards were killed and at least 33 were wounded in the first
   explosion, and one border guard died in the second blast, which
   occurred on the same road. the buses were part of a convoy carrying
   security forces to srinagar, 300 kilometers (185 miles) to the north,
   ahead of independence day. later in the day, 10 rebels were killed in
   a gun battle when an army foot patrol opened fire after spotting
   militants in a remote mountainous area 260 kilometers (160 miles)
   north of jammu, said maj. gen. p.p.s. bindra, of india's army. no
   indian casualties were reported. more than 100 people -- including 30
   hindu pilgrims traveling to a holy cave -- were killed in a series of
   massacres over a 24-hour period earlier this month. indian officials
   blamed militants for the killings. on thursday, 14 people, including
   several security officers, were killed in a car bombing. hezb-ul
   mujahedeen claimed responsibility for that attack. "we are committed
   to end indian rule in kashmir and our activities will escalate," said
   salim hashmi, a hezb-ul mujahedeen spokesman in islamabad, pakistan.
   the group called on kashmiri residents to boycott independence day
   celebrations. "why should we celebrate when our people are being
   massacred, our property is being destroyed, our womenfolk are being
   molested and raped," the group said in a statement delivered to local
   newspaper offices in srinagar. on monday, amid pakistan's independence
   day celebrations, musharraf said pakistan supported militants in
   indian- controlled kashmir, and he accused india of human rights
   abuses in the disputed region. "pakistan stands united with their
   kashmiri brothers and sisters in their just cause," musharraf said. he
   also called for renewed peace talks with india. india and pakistan
   have fought two of their three wars over kashmir. india controls
   two-thirds of the region, while pakistan administers the other
   one-third. fighting in the region has claimed approximately 30,000
   lives since 1989. pakistan wants a vote on both sides of the disputed
   kashmir border in accordance with the u.n. resolutions of 1948 to
   decide whether a united kashmir should be part of pakistan or india.
   india has rejected the proposal. during pakistan's independence
   celebrations, musharraf and pakistani president rafiq tarar called on
   india to begin dialogue with pakistan to ensure peace in the area.
   tarar, in his independence day address, urged other countries to press
   india to resolve the kashmir dispute through talks. security was high
   in islamabad, pakistan's capital. "any efforts to resolve the kashmir
   problem bypassing pakistan will give no results and complicate the
   issue further," he said. indian officials have said they would not
   talk with pakistani leaders because they blamed pakistan for the
   recent violence, and for committing or backing violence on indian
   soil. last week, the hezb-ul mujahedeen called off a cease-fire --
   originally set for three months -- because india refused to hold peace
   talks with pakistan. the group had wanted tripartite talks with india,
   pakistan and militant groups in kashmir. musharraf said on monday that
   a solution to the dispute is crucial for peace and stability in south
   asia. both india and pakistan have exploded nuclear devices and
   declared themselves nuclear powers. "pakistan is a peace-loving,
   responsible country," musharraf said. "we desire tranquil and
   harmonious coexistence with all countries of the world, particularly
   our neighbors." however, he said india's "intractability" over kashmir
   and its refusal to discuss the issue with pakistan has created an
   "extremely volatile" situation. on sunday, star news television
   reported that vajpayee planned to lobby the u.n. general assembly next
   month to have pakistan declared a "rogue state." "this is not a
   question of any pressure," indian minister of state for external
   affairs ajit kumar panja told star news. "we have given arguments,
   reasons and cogent evidence, clinching evidence for declaring pakistan
   a rogue state," the minister said.